VPC firewall rules  |  Cloud Next Generation Firewall  |  Google Cloud Documentation

 Skip to main content

 Home

 Documentation

 Networking

 Cloud NGFW

 Guides

 Send feedback

 # 
 VPC firewall rules

 Stay organized with collections

 Save and categorize content based on your preferences.

Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) firewall rules apply to a given project and network.
If you want to apply firewall rules to multiple VPC networks
in an organization, see Firewall policies and rules.
The rest of this page covers VPC firewall rules only.

VPC firewall rules let you allow or deny connections to or
from virtual machine (VM) instances in your
VPC network. Enabled VPC firewall rules
are always enforced, protecting your instances regardless of their configuration
and operating system, even if they have not started up.

Every VPC network functions as a distributed firewall. While
firewall rules are defined at the network level, connections are allowed or
denied on a per-instance basis. You can think of the VPC
firewall rules as existing not only between your instances and other networks,
but also between individual instances within the same network.

Note: This page is an overview of firewall rules. If you're looking for information
about how to create and work with firewall rules, see
Use VPC firewall rules.
For more information about firewalls, see
Firewall (computing).

## Best practices for firewall rules
 {#best_practices_for_firewall_rules}

When designing and evaluating your firewall rules, keep in mind
the following best practices:

Implement
least-privilege
principles. Block all traffic by default and only allow the specific traffic
you need. This includes limiting the rule to just the protocols and ports you
need.

Use hierarchical firewall policy rules to block
traffic that should never be allowed at an organization or folder level.

For "allow" rules, restrict them to specific VMs by specifying the
service account of the VMs.

If you need to create rules based on IP addresses, try to minimize the number
of rules. It's easier to track one rule that allows traffic to a range of 16
VMs than it is to track 16 separate rules.

Use firewall policies to group
firewall rules for simplified configuration and deployment.
Firewall policy rules provide
several rule components that provide granular traffic control:

Use address groups 
to simplify using multiple IP address ranges in firewall rules.

Use
FQDN objects 
in firewall policy to filter incoming or outgoing traffic from or to
specific domains. You might incur
Cloud Next Generation Firewall Standard data processing charges.

Use
geolocation objects 
in firewall policies when you need to filter external IPv4 and IPv6 traffic
based on specific geographic locations or regions. You might incur
Cloud Next Generation Firewall Standard processing charges.

Turn on
 VPC firewall rules logging and
use
Firewall Insights
to verify that firewall rules are being used in the intended way.
VPC firewall rules logging can incur
costs, so you might want to consider using
it selectively.

## Firewall rules in Google Cloud
 {#firewall-rules-in-google-cloud}

When you create a VPC firewall rule, you specify a
VPC network and a set of components that define what the rule
does. The components enable you to target certain types of traffic, based on
the traffic's protocol, destination ports, sources, and destinations. For more
information, see firewall rule components.

You create or modify VPC firewall rules by using the
Google Cloud console, the
Google Cloud CLI,
and the REST API. When you create or modify
a firewall rule, you can specify the instances to which it is intended to apply
by using the target parameter of the rule. For firewall rule
examples, see Other configuration examples.

In addition to firewall rules that you create, Google Cloud has other
rules that can affect incoming (ingress) or outgoing (egress) connections:

Google Cloud blocks or limits certain traffic. For more information, see
Blocked and limited traffic.

Google Cloud always allows communication between a VM instance and its
corresponding metadata server at 169.254.169.254. For more information,
see always allowed traffic.

VPC firewall rules are evaluated along with rules in firewall
policies according to the Firewall rule evaluation
process.
As a last step, Cloud NGFW enforces an implied
action if no explicit action applied to the traffic.

The default network is pre-populated with firewall rules
that you can delete or modify.

### Specifications
 {#specifications}

VPC firewall rules have the following characteristics:

Each firewall rule applies to incoming (ingress) or outgoing (egress)
connections, not both. For more information, see
direction of connection.

Firewall rules support IPv4 connections. IPv6 connections are also supported
in VPC networks that have
IPv6 enabled. When specifying a source or
destination for an ingress or egress rule by address, you can
specify IPv4 or IPv6 addresses or blocks in CIDR notation.

Each firewall rule can contain either IPv4 or IPv6 ranges, but not both.

Each firewall rule's action is either allow or deny.
The rule applies to connections as long as it is enforced. For
example, you can disable a rule for troubleshooting purposes.

When you create a firewall rule, you must select a VPC network.
While the rule is enforced at the instance level, its configuration is
associated with a VPC network. This means that you cannot share
firewall rules among VPC networks, including networks connected
by VPC Network Peering or by using
Cloud VPN tunnels.

VPC firewall rules are
stateful:

When a connection is allowed through the firewall in either direction,
return traffic matching this connection is also allowed. You cannot
configure a firewall rule to deny associated response traffic.

Return traffic must match the 5-tuple (source IP, destination IP,
source port, destination port, protocol) of the accepted request traffic,
but with the source and destination addresses and ports reversed.

Google Cloud associates incoming packets with corresponding outbound
packets by using a connection tracking table. IPv4 connections
support TCP, UDP, SCTP, and ICMP protocols. IPv6 connections
support TCP, UDP, SCTP, and ICMPv6 protocols.

Google Cloud implements connection tracking regardless of whether
the protocol supports connections. If a connection is allowed between a
source and a target (for an ingress rule) or between a target and a
destination (for an egress rule), all response traffic is allowed as long
as the firewall's connection tracking state is active. A firewall rule's
tracking state is considered active if at least one packet is sent every
10 minutes.

When a fragmented connection is allowed through the firewall,
Google Cloud uses connection tracking to allow only the first
fragment of return traffic. To allow subsequent return fragments, you
must add a firewall rule.

ICMP response traffic, such as "ICMP TYPE 3, DESTINATION UNREACHABLE",
generated in response to an allowed TCP/UDP connection is allowed
through the firewall. This behavior is consistent with RFC
792.

VPC firewall rules do not reassemble fragmented TCP packets.
Therefore, a firewall rule applicable to the TCP protocol can only apply
to the first fragment because it contains the TCP header. Firewall rules
applicable to the TCP protocol do not apply to the subsequent TCP fragments.

The maximum number of tracked connections in the firewall rule table depends
on the number of stateful connections supported by the machine type of the
instance. If the maximum number of tracked connections is exceeded, tracking
is stopped for the connections that have the longest idle interval to let new
connections be tracked.

 Instance machine type

 Maximum number of stateful connections

 Shared-core machine types

130,000

Instances with 1–8 vCPUs

130,000 connections per vCPU

Instances with more than 8 vCPUs

1,040,000 (130,000×8) connections total

### Implied actions
 {#default_firewall_rules}

If no VPC firewall rule applies to a target, the firewall rule
evaluation process might reach the last step. At this step, Cloud NGFW
uses an implied action. The implied action depends on the traffic direction
and the target resource type.

For more information, see Firewall rule evaluation
process.

### Pre-populated rules in the default network
 {#more_rules_default_vpc}

The default network is pre-populated with firewall rules that allow incoming
connections to instances. These rules can be deleted or modified as necessary:

 Rule name

 Direction

 Priority

 Source ranges

 Action

 Protocols and ports

 Description

 default-allow-internal

 ingress

 65534

 10.128.0.0/9

 allow

 tcp:0-65535

 udp:0-65535

 icmp

 Permits incoming connections to VM instances from other instances within
 the same VPC network.

 default-allow-ssh

 ingress

 65534

 0.0.0.0/0

 allow

 tcp:22

 Lets you connect to instances with tools such as ssh,
 scp, or sftp.

 default-allow-rdp

 ingress

 65534

 0.0.0.0/0

 allow

 tcp:3389

 Lets you connect to instances using the Microsoft Remote Desktop Protocol
 (RDP).

 default-allow-icmp

 ingress

 65534

 0.0.0.0/0

 allow

 icmp

 Lets you use tools such as ping.

You can create similar firewall rules for networks other than the default
network. See Configure firewall rules for common use cases for more information.

### Blocked and limited traffic
 {#blockedtraffic}

Separate from VPC firewall rules and hierarchical firewall
policies, Google Cloud blocks or limits certain traffic as described in
the following table.

 Traffic type

 Details

 Packet rate and bandwidth
 Applies to:

 All egress packets

 All ingress packets

 Google Cloud accounts for bandwidth per VM instance, for each
 network interface (NIC) or IP address. A VM's
 machine type defines its
 maximum possible egress rate; however, you can only achieve that maximum
 possible egress rate in specific situations.

For details, see
 Network bandwidth in
 the Compute Engine documentation.

 DHCP offers and acknowledgments
 Applies to:

 Ingress packets to UDP port 68 (DHCPv4)

 Ingress packets to UDP port 546 (DHCPv6)

 Google Cloud blocks incoming DHCP offers and acknowledgments from
 all sources except for DHCP packets coming from
 the metadata server.

 Protocols supported by Google Cloud external IP addresses
 Applies to:

 Ingress packets to external IP addresses

 External IPv4 and IPv6 addresses only accept TCP, UDP, ICMP,
 IPIP, AH, ESP, SCTP, and GRE packets. Resources that use external
 IP addresses impose additional protocol restrictions:

 Forwarding rules for protocol forwarding,
 external Application Load Balancers,
 external proxy Network Load Balancers,
 and
 external passthrough Network Load Balancers
 only process
 the protocols and
 ports
 configured on the forwarding rule.

 Cloud VPN
 gateways only accept
 VPN protocols.

 SMTP (port 25) traffic
 Applies to:

 Egress packets to external IP addresses on TCP port 25

 To help prevent spam, by default Google Cloud blocks egress
 packets sent to TCP destination port 25 of an external IP address
 (including an external IP address of another Google Cloud resource).
 Google Cloud automatically removes this block once it determines a
 project is at low risk of sending large volumes of email over unencrypted
 connections. Google Cloud excludes SMTP traffic over TLS on port 465
 or 587 from this block. To find out if your project permits this traffic, go to the

 VPC networks page or the 
 Firewall policies page in the Google Cloud console. A banner message
 on both pages indicates whether your project permits this traffic. For more
 information, contact a Google Cloud sales specialist.

 This block does not apply to egress packets sent to TCP destination
 port 25 of an internal IP address, including a privately used
 public IP address in a VPC network or an on-premises
 network.

 If external SMTP egress on port 25 is allowed in your project, and you
 want to send this type of traffic, the following additional
 conditions must be met:

 Egress firewall rules in the VPC network and
 hierarchical firewall policies applicable to the VPC
 network must allow egress to the external IP address on TCP port 25.
 The implied allow egress rules
 meet this requirement because they allow egress to (and established
 inbound responses from) any IP address.

 The applicable route for the destination must use the default
 internet gateway next hop. The
 system-generated
 default routes meet this requirement.

 The instance sending packets to the external IP address must meet
 the internet access
 requirements.

 You can prevent external SMTP egress by creating egress deny
 VPC firewall rules or hierarchical firewall policies.

### Always allowed traffic
 {#alwaysallowed}

For VM instances, VPC firewall rules and hierarchical firewall
policies do not apply to the following:

Packets sent to and received from the Google Cloud metadata
server

Packets sent to an IP address assigned to one of the instance's own network
interfaces (NICs) where packets stay within the VM itself. IP addresses
assigned to an instance's NIC include:

The primary internal IPv4 address of the NIC

Any internal IPv4 address from an alias IP range of
the NIC

If IPv6 is configured on the subnet, any of the IPv6 addresses assigned to
the NIC

An internal or external IPv4 address associated with a forwarding rule,
for load balancing or protocol forwarding, if the instance is a backend
for the load balancer or is a target instance for protocol forwarding

Loopback addresses

Addresses configured as part of networking overlay software you run within
the instance itself

#### Google Cloud metadata server
 {#gcp-metadata-server}

Google Cloud runs a local metadata server alongside each instance. The
server is accessible at 169.254.169.254 (for IPv4) and fd20:ce::254 (for
IPv6). This server is essential to the operation of the instance, so the
instance can access it regardless of any firewall rules that you configure. The
metadata server provides the following basic services to the instance:

DHCP

DNS resolution, following the DNS name resolution
order for the VPC network.

Instance metadata

Network Time Protocol (NTP)

## Product interactions
 {#product-interactions}

The following sections describe how firewall rules and hierarchical firewall
policies interact with other Google Cloud products.

### Firewall rules and passthrough load balancers
 {#pass-through-lb}

VPC firewall rules and hierarchical firewall policies do control
which of the forwarding rule's supported protocols and ports are allowed to
access the passthrough load balancer's backends. For details, see:

Firewall rules in the global external passthrough Network Load Balancer
documentation

Firewall rules in the regional external passthrough Network Load Balancer
documentation

Firewall rules in the internal passthrough Network Load Balancer
documentation

### Firewall rules and proxy load balancers
 {#proxy-lb}

For external Application Load Balancers, internal Application Load Balancers,
internal proxy Network Load Balancers, and external proxy Network Load Balancers, VPC
firewall rules and hierarchical firewall policies do not control which
protocols and ports are accepted by the proxy load balancer's forwarding rule IP
address. The forwarding rule alone determines which protocols and ports are
accepted by the proxy load balancer.

VPC firewall rules and hierarchical firewall policies do
control how these proxy load balancers communicate to their backends. For
details, see:

Firewall rules in the external Application Load Balancer
documentation

Firewall rules in the internal Application Load Balancer
documentation

Firewall rules in the internal proxy Network Load Balancer
documentation

Firewall rules in the external proxy Network Load Balancer
documentation

### Firewall rules and Cloud VPN
 {#cloud-vpn}

Firewall rules and hierarchical firewall policies do not control which
protocols and ports are accepted by the Cloud VPN gateway.

Cloud VPN gateways only accept packets for the protocols and ports described
in the Cloud VPN
specifications.

### Firewall rules and GKE
 {#gke-firewall-rules}

Google Kubernetes Engine creates and manages firewall rules automatically when you create
a cluster or resources in the cluster (including Services and Ingresses). For
more information, see Automatically created firewall
rules in the Google Kubernetes Engine
documentation.

### Firewall rules and AI Hypercomputer
 {#ai-hc}

You can create VPC firewall rules when you create the VPC networks required for creating VMs in AI Hypercomputer. Use the firewall rules to specify the protocols and ports that are allowed for your VPC networks.
For more information, see AI Hypercomputer overview.

## Firewall rule components
 {#firewall_rule_components}

Each firewall rule consists of the following configuration components:

A direction from the perspective of the target.
Direction can be either ingress or egress.

A numerical priority, which
determines whether the rule is applied. Only the highest priority (lowest
priority number) rule whose other components match traffic is applied;
conflicting rules with lower priorities are ignored.

An action on match, either allow or deny, which
determines whether the rule permits or blocks connections.

The enforcement status of the firewall rule: You can enable
and disable firewall rules without deleting them.

A target, which defines the instances (including
GKE clusters and App Engine flexible environment instances)
to which the rule applies.

A source or destination filter for
packet characteristics.

The protocol (such as TCP, UDP, or ICMP) and
destination port.

A boolean logs option which logs
connections that match the rule into Cloud Logging.

### Components summary
 {#gcp_firewall_rule_summary_table}

 Ingress (inbound) rule

 Priority

 Action

 Enforcement

 Target parameter

 Source and destination filters

 Protocols and ports

 Integer from 0 to 65535, inclusive; default
 1000

 allow or deny

 enabled (default) or disabled

 Specifies the instances that receive packets.

 Sources for ingress rules

 Destinations for ingress rules

 Specify a protocol or a protocol and a destination port.

 If not set, the rule applies to all protocols and destination ports. For more
 information, see Protocols and ports.

 Egress (outbound) rule

 Priority

 Action

 Enforcement

 Target parameter

 Source and destination filters

 Protocols and ports

 Integer from 0 to 65535, inclusive; default
 1000

 allow or deny

 enabled (default) or disabled

 Specifies the instances that send packets.

 Sources for egress rules

 Destinations for egress rules

 Specify a protocol or a protocol and a destination port.

 If not set, the rule applies to all protocols and destination ports. For more
 information, see Protocols and ports.

### Direction of traffic
 {#direction_of_the_rule}

You can create firewall rules that apply to ingress or egress traffic. A single
rule cannot apply to both ingress and egress traffic. However, you can create
multiple rules to define the ingress and egress traffic that you allow or
deny through the firewall.

Ingress (inbound) describes packets entering a network interface of a
target.

Egress (outbound) describes packets leaving a network interface of a
target.

If you don't specify a direction, Google Cloud uses ingress.

### Priority
 {#priority_order_for_firewall_rules}

The priority of a VPC firewall rule is similar to the
priority of a rule in
a firewall policy, with the following differences:

 Feature

 Firewall policy rule

 VPC firewall rule

 Range

 0 to 2,147,483,547

 0 to 65,535

 Default priority number

 None

 1000 (default)

 Uniqueness

 Must be unique within the policy

 Can be shared across rules

The relative priority of a firewall rule determines whether it is applicable when
evaluated against others. The evaluation logic works as follows:

The highest priority rule applicable to a target for a given type of traffic
takes precedence. Target specificity does not matter. For example, a higher
priority ingress rule for certain destination ports and protocols intended
for all targets overrides a similarly defined rule with lower priority for the
same destination ports and protocols intended for specific targets.

The highest priority rule applicable for a given protocol and destination
port definition takes precedence, even when the protocol and destination
port definition is more general. For example, a higher priority ingress rule
allowing traffic for all protocols and destination ports intended for given
targets overrides a lower priority ingress rule denying TCP 22 for the same
targets.

A rule with a deny action overrides another with an allow action only if
the two rules have the same priority. Using relative priorities, it is
possible to build allow rules that override deny rules, and deny rules
that override allow rules.

Rules with the same priority and the same action have the same result.
However, the rule that is used during the evaluation is indeterminate. Normally,
it doesn't matter which rule is used except when you enable
VPC firewall rules logging. If you want
your logs to show firewall rules being evaluated in a consistent and well-
defined order, assign them unique priorities.

Consider the following example where two firewall rules exist:

An ingress rule from sources 0.0.0.0/0 (any IPv4 address) applicable to all targets,
all protocols, and all destination ports, having a deny action and a
priority of 1000.

An ingress rule from sources 0.0.0.0/0 (any IPv4 address) applicable to specific
targets with the network tag webserver, for traffic on TCP 80, with an allow
action.

The priority of the second rule determines whether TCP traffic to port 80 is
allowed for the webserver targets:

If the priority of the second rule is set to a number greater than 1000,
it has a lower priority, so the first rule denying all traffic applies.

If the priority of the second rule is set to 1000, the two rules have
identical priorities, so the first rule denying all traffic applies.

If the priority of the second rule is set to a number less than 1000,
it has a higher priority, thus allowing traffic on TCP 80 for the
webserver targets. Absent other rules, the first rule would still deny other
types of traffic to the webserver targets, and it would also deny all
traffic, including TCP 80, to instances without the webserver network tag.

The previous example demonstrates how you can use priorities to create selective
allow rules and global deny rules to implement a security best practice of
least privilege.

### Action on match
 {#action_of_the_rule}

The action component of a firewall rule determines whether it permits or blocks
traffic, subject to the other components of the rule:

An allow action permits connections that match the other specified
components.

A deny action blocks connections that match the other specified components.

Note: A firewall rule can only have one action component. Both allow and
deny cannot be specified in the same rule. To define the order in which the
rules should be applied, create separate firewall rules with different
priorities.
### Enforcement
 {#enforcement}

You can choose whether a firewall rule is enforced by setting its state
to enabled or disabled. You set the enforcement state when you
create a rule or when you
update a rule.

If you don't set an enforcement state when you create a new firewall rule, the
firewall rule is automatically enabled.

#### Use cases
 {#use_cases}

Disabling and enabling are useful for troubleshooting and performing
maintenance. Consider changing the enforcement of a firewall rule in the following situations:

For troubleshooting: In conjunction with VPC firewall rules logging, you can temporarily disable a
firewall rule to determine if the rule is responsible for blocking or allowing
traffic. This is useful for situations where multiple firewall rules apply to
the same traffic. Disabling and enabling rules is more useful than deleting
and re-creating rules because none of the other components of the rule are
lost.

For maintenance: Disabling firewall rules can simplify periodic maintenance.
For example, you might choose to enable an ingress firewall rule that allows
SSH access only at times when you need to perform maintenance using SSH. When
you're not performing maintenance, you can disable the rule.

#### Effects on existing traffic
 {#effects_on_existing_traffic}

When you change a firewall rule's enforcement state, create a new enforced
rule, or modify firewall rules to deny traffic that was previously allowed,
Cloud NGFW enforces this change only on new connections. Existing
connections persist, and their associated traffic remains unaffected.

### Protocols and ports
 {#protocols_and_ports}

You can narrow the scope of a firewall rule by specifying protocols or
protocols and destination ports. You can specify a protocol or a combination of
protocols and their destination ports. If you omit both protocols and ports, the
firewall rule is applicable for all traffic on any protocol and any destination
port. Rules based on source ports are not supported.

Not all protocols support ports. For example, ports exist for TCP and UDP, but
not for ICMP. ICMP does have different ICMP types, but they are not ports
and cannot be specified in a firewall rule.

You can use the following protocol names in firewall rules: tcp, udp, icmp
(for IPv4 ICMP), esp, ah, sctp, and ipip. For all other protocols, you must
use the
IANA protocol numbers.

Many protocols use the same name and number in both IPv4 and IPv6, but some
protocols, such as ICMP, do not.

The IPv6 Hop-by-Hop protocol is not supported in firewall rules.

The following table summarizes valid protocol and destination port specification
combinations for Google Cloud firewall rules.

 Specification

 Example

 Explanation

 No protocol and port

 —

 If you do not specify a protocol, the firewall rule applies to all
 protocols and their applicable destination ports.

 Protocol

 tcp

 If you specify a protocol without any port information, the firewall
 rule applies to that protocol and all its applicable ports.

 Protocol and single port

 tcp:80

 If you specify a protocol and a single destination port, the firewall
 rule applies to that destination port of the protocol.

 Protocol and port range

 tcp:20-22

 If you specify a protocol and a port range, the firewall rule applies to
 that destination port range for the protocol.

 Combinations

 icmp,tcp:80
tcp:443
udp:67-69

 You can specify various combinations of protocols and destination ports
 to which the firewall rule applies. For more information, see Create firewall
 rules.

Important: A port cannot be specified by itself. If you only specify a number,
Google Cloud interprets that as a decimal IP protocol. For example,
if you specify 80 by itself, Google Cloud interprets that as IP protocol
80 (ISO-IP), which is not the same as TCP port 80 (tcp:80).
## Target, source, destination
 {#sources_or_destinations_for_the_rule}

Targets identify the network interfaces of instances to which the firewall rule
applies.

You can specify both source and destination parameters that apply to the packet
sources or destinations for both ingress and egress firewall rules. The
direction of the firewall rule determines the possible
values for the source and destination parameters.

### Target parameter
 {#rule_assignment}

The target parameter identifies the network interfaces of the
Compute Engine instances, including GKE nodes and
App Engine flexible environment instances.

You can define the following targets for both ingress or egress rules. The
target, source, and destination parameters work together as described in
Source, destination, target.

Default target—all instances in the VPC network. When
you omit a target specification, the firewall rule
applies to all instances in the VPC network.

Instances by target network tags. The firewall rule only applies to
instances with network interfaces in the firewall rule's VPC
network if the instances have a network
tag that matches at least one of the
firewall rule's target network tags. For the maximum number of target network
tags that you can specify per firewall rule, see per firewall rule
limits.

Instances by target service accounts. The firewall rule only applies to
instances with network interfaces in the firewall rule's VPC
network if the instances use a service account that
matches at least one of the firewall rule's target service accounts. For the
maximum number of target service accounts that you can specify per firewall
rule, see per firewall rule limits.

For information about the benefits and limitations of target network tags and
target service accounts, see filtering by service account versus network
tag.

#### Targets and IP addresses for ingress rules
 {#targets_and_ips_ingress}

The packets routed to the network interface of a target VM are processed based
on the following conditions:

If the ingress firewall rule includes a destination IP address range,
the packet's destination must fit within one of the explicitly defined
destination IP address ranges.

If the ingress firewall rule does not include a destination IP address range,
the packet's destination must match one of the following IP addresses:

The primary internal IPv4 address assigned to the instance's NIC.

Any configured alias IP ranges on the
instance's NIC.

The external IPv4 address that's associated with the instance's NIC.

If IPv6 is configured on the subnet, any of the IPv6 addresses assigned to
the NIC.

An internal or external IP address associated with a forwarding rule used
for pass-through load balancing, where the instance is a backend for an
internal passthrough Network Load Balancer or an external passthrough Network Load Balancer.

An internal or external IP address associated with a forwarding rule used
for protocol forwarding, where the instance is referenced by a target
instance.

An IP address within the destination range of a custom static route that uses the instance as a next hop VM (next-hop-instance or next-hop-address).

An IP address within the destination range of a custom static route using
an internal passthrough Network Load Balancer (next-hop-ilb) next hop, if the VM is a backend for
that load balancer.

#### Targets and IP addresses for egress rules
 {#targets_and_ips_egress}

The processing of packets emitted from the network interface of a target depends on the IP forwarding configuration
on the target VM. IP forwarding is disabled by default.

When the target VM has IP forwarding disabled, the VM can emit packets with the
following sources:

The primary internal IPv4 address of an instance's NIC.

Any configured alias IP range on an instance's NIC.

If IPv6 is configured on the subnet, any of the IPv6 addresses assigned to
the NIC.

An internal or external IP address associated with a forwarding rule, for
pass-through load balancing or protocol forwarding, if the instance is a
backend for an internal passthrough Network Load Balancer, an external passthrough Network Load Balancer, or is referenced by
a target instance.

If the egress firewall rule includes source IP address ranges, the target
VMs are still limited to the source IP addresses mentioned previously, but the
source parameter can be used to refine that set. Use of a source parameter
without enabling IP forwarding does not expand the set of possible packet
source addresses.

If the egress firewall rule does not include a source IP address range, all
the source IP addresses mentioned previously are permitted.

When the target VM has IP forwarding enabled, the VM can emit packets with
arbitrary source addresses. You can use the source parameter to more
precisely define the set of allowed packet sources.

### Source parameter
 {#sources_for_the_rule}

Source parameter values depend on the direction of the firewall rule.

#### Sources for ingress rules
 {#source_parameter_ingress_rule}

You can use the following sources for ingress firewall rules:

Default source range: When you omit a source specification in an ingress rule,
Google Cloud uses the default source IPv4 address range
0.0.0.0/0 (any IPv4 address). The default value does not include IPv6
sources.

Source IPv4 ranges: A list of IPv4 addresses in CIDR format.

Source IPv6 ranges: A list of IPv6 addresses in CIDR format.

Source network tags: One or more network
tags that identify network interfaces of
VM instances in the same VPC network as the firewall rule. For
the maximum number of source network tags per firewall rule, see per firewall
rule limits. For details about
how packet source addresses are matched when using this implicit source
specification, see How source network tags and source service accounts imply
packet sources.

Source service accounts: One or more service accounts
that identify network interfaces of VM instances in the same
VPC network as the firewall rule. For the maximum number of
source service accounts per firewall rule, see per firewall rule
limits. For details about how packet
source addresses are matched when using this implicit source specification,
see How source network tags and source service accounts imply packet
sources.

A valid source combination: For all of the following combinations, the
effective source set is the union of the IPv4 or IPv6 addresses that are
explicitly specified and the IP address ranges that are implied by source
network tag or source service account:

A combination of source IPv4 ranges and source network tags.

A combination of source IPv6 ranges and source network tags.

A combination of source IPv4 ranges and source service accounts.

A combination of source IPv6 ranges and source service accounts.

Important: Network tags and service accounts cannot be used in the same firewall
rule. For more information, see filtering by service account versus network
tag.
How source network tags and source service accounts imply packet sources 

When an ingress firewall rule uses a source network tag, the packets must be
emitted from a network interface that meets the following criteria:

The network interface must be in the VPC network where the
firewall rule is defined, and

The network interface must be associated with a VM that has a network tag that
matches at least one of the firewall rule's source network tags.

When an ingress firewall rule uses a source service account, the packets must
be emitted from a network interface that meets the following criteria:

The network interface must be in the VPC network where the
firewall rule is defined, and

The network interface must be associated with a VM that has a service account
that matches one of the firewall rule's source service accounts.

In addition to specifying a network interface, when an ingress firewall rule uses
either a source network tag or a source service account, packets emitted from the network
interface of the VM must use one of the following valid source IP addresses:

The primary internal IPv4 address of that network interface.

Any IPv6 addresses assigned to that network interface.

If an ingress firewall rule also contains destination IP address ranges,
the network interface bound to a network tag is resolved to the same IP
version as the destination IP range.

No other packet source IP addresses are implied when using source network tags or
source service accounts. For example, alias IP ranges and external IPv4
address associated with the network interface are excluded. If you need to
create ingress firewall rules whose sources include alias IP address ranges
or external IPv4 addresses, use source IPv4 ranges.

#### Sources for egress rules
 {#source_parameter_egress_rule}

You can use the following sources for egress firewall rules:

Default—implied by target. If you omit the source parameter from an
egress rule, packet sources are defined implicitly as described in Targets
and IP addresses for egress rules.

Source IPv4 ranges. A list of IPv4 addresses in CIDR format.

Source IPv6 ranges. A list of IPv6 addresses in CIDR format.

Follow these guidelines to add source IP address ranges for egress rules:

If a VM interface has both internal and external IPv4 addresses assigned,
only the internal IPv4 address is used during rule evaluation.

If you specify both source and destination parameters in an egress rule,
use the same IP version for both parameters. You can use either an
IPv4 address range or an IPv6 address range, but not both. For details, see
Destinations for egress rules.

### Destination parameter
 {#destinations_for_the_rule}

Destinations can be specified by using IP address ranges, which are supported by
both ingress and egress rules. The default destination behavior depends on the
direction of the rule.

#### Destinations for ingress rules
 {#destination_parameter_ingress_rule}

You can use the following destinations for ingress firewall rules:

Default—implied by target. If you omit the destination parameter from
an ingress rule, packet destinations are defined implicitly as described in
Targets and IP addresses for ingress rules.

Destination IPv4 ranges. A list of IPv4 addresses in CIDR format.

Destination IPv6 ranges. A list of IPv6 addresses in CIDR format.

Follow these guidelines to add destination IP address ranges for ingress rules:

If a VM interface has both internal and external IPv4 addresses assigned,
only the internal IPv4 address is used during rule evaluation.

If you specify both source and destination parameters in an ingress rule,
then the source parameters are resolved into the same IP version as
the destination IP address range. To learn more about
how to define sources for ingress rules, see Sources for ingress rules.

#### Destinations for egress rules
 {#destination_parameter_egress_rule}

You can use the following destinations for egress firewall rules:

Default destination range. When you omit a destination specification in an
egress rule, Google Cloud uses the default destination IPv4 address range
0.0.0.0/0 (any IPv4 address). The default value does not include IPv6
destinations.

Destination IPv4 ranges. A list of IPv4 addresses in CIDR format.

Destination IPv6 ranges. A list of IPv6 addresses in CIDR format.

## Source and target filtering by service account
 {#serviceaccounts}

You can use service accounts to create firewall
rules that are more specific in nature:

For both ingress and egress rules, you can use service accounts to specify
targets.

For ingress rules, you can specify the source for incoming packets as the
primary internal IP address of any VM in the network where the VM uses a
particular service account.

The service account must be
created in the same project
as the firewall rule before you create a firewall rule that relies on it.
While the system does not stop you from creating a rule that uses a service
account from a different project, the rule is not enforced if the service
account doesn't exist in the firewall rule's project.

Note: You cannot use Workload Identity Federation for GKE
service accounts in the VPC firewall rules for source and target filtering.
Firewall rules that use service accounts to identify instances apply to both
new instances created and associated with the service
account
and existing instances if you change their service
accounts.
Changing the service account associated with an instance requires that you
stop and restart it. You can associate service accounts with individual
instances and with instance templates used by managed instance
groups.

Note: In projects with a standalone VPC (a VPC
that does not participate in Shared VPC), you can only use service
accounts from that project as firewall rule criteria. In projects using
Shared VPC, you can use service accounts from the host
project or any service project as firewall rule criteria. If you create a
firewall rule that uses service accounts that do not match these two scenarios,
the firewall rule will not be enforced.
### Filter by service account versus network tag
 {#service-accounts-vs-tags}

This section highlights key points to consider when deciding if you should use
service accounts or network tags to define targets and sources (for ingress
rules).

If you need strict control over how firewall rules are applied to VMs, use
target service accounts and source service accounts instead of target network tags and
source network tags:

A network tag is an arbitrary attribute. One or more network tags can be
associated with an instance by any
Identity and Access Management (IAM) principal who has permission to edit it.
IAM principals with the Compute Engine Instance
Admin role to a project
have this permission. IAM principals who can edit an instance can change its
network tags, which could change the set of applicable firewall rules for that
instance.

A service account represents an identity associated with an instance. Only
one service account can be associated with an instance. You control access to
the service account by controlling the grant of the
Service Account User role for other
IAM principals. For an IAM principal to start an instance
by using a service account, that principal must have the Service Account User role
to at least use that service account and appropriate permissions to create
instances (for example, having the Compute Engine Instance Admin role to
the project).

You cannot mix and match service accounts and network tags in any firewall rule:

You cannot use target service accounts and target network tags together in any
firewall rule (ingress or egress).

If you specify targets by target network tag or target service account, the following
are invalid sources for ingress firewall rules.

 Targets

 Invalid sources

 Target network tags

 Source service accounts

 Combination of source IP ranges and source service accounts

 Target service account

 Source network tags

 Combination of source IP ranges and source network tags

Following are operational considerations for service accounts and network tags:

Changing a service account for an instance requires stopping and restarting
it. Adding or removing network tags can be done while the instance is running.

There are a maximum number of target service accounts, source service
accounts, target network tags, and source network tags that can be specified
for firewall rules. For more information, see per firewall rule
limits.

If you identify instances by network tag, the firewall rule applies to the
primary internal IP address of the instance.

Service account firewall rules apply to the GKE node, not the
GKE Pod.

## Roles and permissions
 {#access}

The following table describes the IAM permissions that
you need for working with VPC firewall rules.

 Task

 Required permission

 Sample role

 Create a firewall rule

 compute.firewalls.create

 Compute Security Admin role (roles/compute.securityAdmin)

 Delete a firewall rule

 compute.firewalls.delete

 Compute Security Admin
 (roles/compute.securityAdmin)

 Make changes to firewall rules

 compute.firewalls.update

 Compute Security Admin role (roles/compute.securityAdmin)

 View details about a firewall rule

 compute.firewalls.get

 Compute Network Viewer role (roles/compute.networkViewer)

 View a list of firewall rules

 compute.firewalls.list

 Compute Network Viewer role (roles/compute.networkViewer)

## Use cases
 {#gcp_firewall_use_cases}

The following use cases demonstrate how firewall rules work. In these examples,
all the firewall rules are enabled.

### Ingress cases
 {#ingress_cases}

Ingress firewall rules control incoming connections from a source to target
instances in your VPC network. The source for an ingress rule can
be defined as one of the following:

A range of IPv4 or IPv6 addresses; the default is any IPv4 address
(0.0.0.0/0)

Other instances in your VPC network identified by network
tags

Other instances in your VPC network identified by service
account

Other instances in your VPC network identified by range of
IPv4 or IPv6 address and by network tag

Other instances in your VPC network identified by range of
IPv4 or IPv6 addresses and by service account

The default source is any IPv4 address (0.0.0.0/0). If you want to control
incoming connections for sources outside your VPC network,
including other sources on the internet, use a range of IP addresses in CIDR format.

Ingress rules with an allow action permit incoming traffic based on the other
components of the rule. In addition to specifying
the source and target for the rule, you can limit the rule to apply to specific
protocols and destination ports. Similarly, ingress rules with a deny action
can be used to protect instances by blocking incoming traffic based on the
firewall rule components.

Caution: You can also use target service accounts or target network tags to specify the
ingress destinations. If you do that, you limit how you can specify the source
for the rule. For more information, see filtering by service account versus network
tag.
#### Ingress examples
 {#secure_ingress_connections}

Figure 1 illustrates some examples where firewall rules can control
ingress connections. The examples use the target
parameter in rule assignments to apply rules to specific instances.

 Figure 1. In this example VPC network,
 the allow ingress firewall rules override the implied deny ingress rule
 for some VMs (click to enlarge).

An ingress rule with priority 1000 is applicable to VM 1. This rule
allows incoming TCP traffic from any IPv4 source (0.0.0.0/0). TCP traffic from
other instances in the VPC network is allowed, subject to
applicable egress rules for those other instances. VM 4 is able to
communicate with VM 1 over TCP because VM 4 has no egress rule blocking
such communication (only the implied allow egress rule is applicable). Because
VM 1 has an external IP, this rule also permits incoming TCP traffic from
external hosts on the internet and from VM 2 via external IP addresses.

VM 2 has no specified ingress firewall rule, so the implied deny ingress
rule blocks all incoming traffic. Connections from other instances in
the network are blocked, regardless of egress rules for the other instances.
Because VM 2 has an external IP, there is a path to it from external
hosts on the internet, but the implied deny ingress rule blocks external
incoming traffic as well.

An ingress rule with priority 1000 is applicable to VM 3. This rule
allows TCP traffic from instances in the network with the network tag
client, such as VM 4. TCP traffic from VM 4 to VM 3 is allowed
because VM 4 has no egress rule blocking such communication (only the
implied allow egress rule is applicable). Because VM 3 does not have an
external IP, there is no path to it from external hosts on the internet.

### Egress cases
 {#egress_cases}

Egress firewall rules control outgoing connections from target instances in your
VPC network. Egress rules with an allow action permit traffic
from instances based on the other components of the
rule. For example, you can permit outbound traffic
to specific destinations, such as a range of IPv4 addresses, on protocols and
destination ports that you specify. Similarly, egress rules with a deny
action block traffic based on the other components of the rule.

Every egress rule needs a destination. The default destination is any IPv4
address (0.0.0.0/0), but you can create a more specific destination by using a
range of IPv4 or IPv6 addresses in CIDR format. When specifying a range of IP
addresses, you can control traffic to instances in your network and to
destinations outside your network, including destinations on the internet.

#### Egress examples
 {##egress_connections_from_a_vm_instance_to_an_internal_or_external_address}

Figure 2 illustrates some examples where firewall rules can control
egress connections. The examples use the target
parameter in rule assignments to apply rules to specific instances.

 Figure 2. In this example VPC network,
 the deny egress firewall rules override the implied allow egress rule for
 some VMs (click to enlarge).

VM 1 has no specified egress firewall rule, so the implied allow egress
rule lets it send traffic to any destination. Connections to other instances in
the VPC network are allowed, subject to applicable ingress rules
for those other instances. VM 1 is able to send traffic to VM 4 because
VM 4 has an ingress rule allowing incoming traffic from any IP address
range. Because VM 1 has an external IP address, it is able to send traffic
to external hosts on the internet. Incoming responses to traffic sent by VM
1 are allowed because firewall rules are stateful.

An egress rule with priority 1000 is applicable to VM 2. This rule
denies all outgoing traffic to all IPv4 destinations (0.0.0.0/0). Outgoing traffic
to other instances in the VPC network is blocked, regardless of
the ingress rules applied to the other instances. Even though VM 2 has an
external IP address, this firewall rule blocks its outgoing traffic to external
hosts on the internet.

An egress rule with priority 1000 is applicable to VM 3. This rule
blocks its outgoing TCP traffic to any destination in the 192.168.1.0/24 IP
range. Even though ingress rules for VM 4 permit all incoming traffic, VM
3 cannot send TCP traffic to VM 4. However, VM 3 is free to send UDP
traffic to VM 4 because the egress rule only applies to the TCP protocol.

Also, VM 3 can send any traffic to other instances in the
VPC network outside the 192.168.1.0/24 IP range, as long as
those other instances have ingress rules to permit such traffic. Because it does
not have an external IP address, it has no path to send traffic outside the VPC
network.

## What's next
 {#whats_next}

To create and work with firewall rules, see
Use VPC firewall rules.

 ## 
 Try it for yourself

 {#try-it-for-yourself}

 If you're new to Google Cloud, create an account to evaluate how
 Cloud NGFW performs in real-world
 scenarios. New customers also get $300 in free credits to run, test, and
 deploy workloads.

 Try Cloud NGFW free

 Send feedback

 Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

 Last updated 2026-09-24 UTC.

 Need to tell us more?

 [[["Easy to understand","easyToUnderstand","thumb-up"],["Solved my problem","solvedMyProblem","thumb-up"],["Other","otherUp","thumb-up"]],[["Hard to understand","hardToUnderstand","thumb-down"],["Incorrect information or sample code","incorrectInformationOrSampleCode","thumb-down"],["Missing the information/samples I need","missingTheInformationSamplesINeed","thumb-down"],["Other","otherDown","thumb-down"]],["Last updated 2026-09-24 UTC."],[],[]]
