NIST Interagency Report
NIST IR 8286r1

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
Stephen Quinn
Julie Chua
Nahla Ivy
R. K. Gardner
Karen Scarfone
Matthew C. Smith
Greg Witte

This publication is available free of charge from:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286r1

NIST Interagency Report
NIST IR 8286r1

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
Stephen Quinn
Computer Security Division
Information Technology Laboratory
Julie Chua
Applied Cybersecurity Division
Information Technology Laboratory
Nahla Ivy
Enterprise Risk Management Office
Office of Financial Resource Management

R. K. Gardner
New World Technology Partners
Karen Scarfone
Trusted Cyber Annex
Matthew C. Smith
Seemless Transition LLC
Greg Witte
Palydin LLC

This publication is available free of charge from:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286r1
December 2025

U.S. Department of Commerce
Howard Lutnick, Secretary
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Craig Burkhardt, Acting Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology and Acting NIST Director

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Certain equipment, instruments, software, or materials, commercial or non-commercial, are identified in this
paper in order to specify the experimental procedure adequately. Such identification does not imply
recommendation or endorsement of any product or service by NIST, nor does it imply that the materials or
equipment identified are necessarily the best available for the purpose.
There may be references in this publication to other publications currently under development by NIST in
accordance with its assigned statutory responsibilities. The information in this publication, including concepts and
methodologies, may be used by federal agencies even before the completion of such companion publications.
Thus, until each publication is completed, current requirements, guidelines, and procedures, where they exist,
remain operative. For planning and transition purposes, federal agencies may wish to closely follow the
development of these new publications by NIST.
Organizations are encouraged to review all draft publications during public comment periods and provide feedback
to NIST. Many NIST cybersecurity publications, other than the ones noted above, are available at
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications.
NIST Technical Series Policies
Copyright, Use, and Licensing Statements
NIST Technical Series Publication Identifier Syntax
Publication History
Approved by the NIST Editorial Review Board on 2025-11-18
Supersedes NIST IR 8286 (October 2020) https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286
How to Cite this NIST Technical Series Publication
Quinn SD, Chua J, Ivy N, Gardner RK, Kent K, Smith MC, Witte GA (2025) Integrating Cybersecurity and Enterprise
Risk Management (ERM). (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Interagency
Report (IR) NIST IR 8286r1. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286r1
Author ORCID iDs
Stephen D. Quinn: 0000-0003-1436-684X
Julie Chua: 0009-0007-9093-7364
Nahla Ivy: 0000-0003-4741-422X
Karen Scarfone: 0000-0001-6334-9486
Matthew C. Smith: 0000-0003-1004-7171
Gregory A. Witte: 0000-0002-5425-1097
Contact Information
nistir8286@nist.gov
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Attn: Applied Cybersecurity Division, Information Technology Laboratory
100 Bureau Drive (Mail Stop 2000) Gaithersburg, MD 20899-2000
Additional Information
Additional information about this publication is available at https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/ir/8286/r1/final, including
related content, potential updates, and document history.
All comments are subject to release under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Abstract
The increasing frequency, creativity, and severity of cybersecurity attacks means that all
enterprises should ensure that cybersecurity risk is receiving appropriate attention within their
enterprise risk management (ERM) programs. This document is intended to help individual
organizations within an enterprise improve their cybersecurity risk information, shared through
their enterprise’s ERM processes. By doing so, enterprises and their component organizations
can better identify, assess, and manage their cybersecurity risks in the context of their broader
mission and business objectives. This document includes guidance on the use of risk registers to
set out cybersecurity risk and explains the value of rolling up measures of risk that are usually
addressed at lower system and organizational levels to the broader enterprise level.
Keywords
cyber risk; cybersecurity risk management (CSRM); cybersecurity risk measurement;
cybersecurity risk profile; cybersecurity risk register (CSRR); enterprise risk management (ERM);
enterprise risk profile; enterprise risk register (ERR); risk appetite; risk tolerance.
Reports on Computer Systems Technology
The Information Technology Laboratory (ITL) at the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) promotes the U.S. economy and public welfare by providing technical
leadership for the Nation’s measurement and standards infrastructure. ITL develops tests, test
methods, reference data, proof of concept implementations, and technical analyses to advance
the development and productive use of information technology. ITL’s responsibilities include
the development of management, administrative, technical, and physical standards and
guidelines for the cost-effective security and privacy of other than national security-related
information in federal information systems.

i

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Audience
The primary audience for this publication includes both federal and non-federal cybersecurity
professionals at all levels who understand cybersecurity but may be unfamiliar with the details
of enterprise risk management (ERM).
The secondary audience includes both federal and non-federal corporate officers, high-level
executives, ERM officers and staff members, and others who understand ERM but may be
unfamiliar with the details of cybersecurity.
All readers are expected to gain an improved understanding of how cybersecurity risk
management (CSRM) and ERM complement and relate to each other as well as the benefits of
integrating their use.
Document Conventions
For the purposes of this document, the terms “cybersecurity” and “information security” are
used interchangeably. While information security is generally considered to encompass the
cybersecurity domain, the term “cybersecurity” has expanded in conventional usage to be
equivalent to information security. Likewise, the terms “cybersecurity risk management”
(CSRM) and “information security risk management” (ISRM) are used interchangeably based on
the same reasoning.
Within this document and the other documents in the IR 8286 series, the term “vulnerability”
sometimes refers to a specific flaw, and other times refers to a method of compromise. The
context should make it obvious which meaning is intended. As the meanings of these terms
continue to evolve, NIST may revisit and alter the wording in future versions of the IR 8286
series.
Trademark Information
All registered trademarks and trademarks belong to their respective organizations.

ii

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Patent Disclosure Notice
NOTICE: ITL has requested that holders of patent claims whose use may be required for
compliance with the guidance or requirements of this publication disclose such patent claims to
ITL. However, holders of patents are not obligated to respond to ITL calls for patents and ITL has
not undertaken a patent search in order to identify which, if any, patents may apply to this
publication.
As of the date of publication and following call(s) for the identification of patent claims whose
use may be required for compliance with the guidance or requirements of this publication, no
such patent claims have been identified to ITL.
No representation is made or implied by ITL that licenses are not required to avoid patent
infringement in the use of this publication.

iii

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Table of Contents
Executive Summary............................................................................................................................1
1. Introduction ...................................................................................................................................3

2. Gaps in Managing Cybersecurity Risk as an ERM Input ....................................................................6
2.1.1. Common Use of ERM.................................................................................................................... 8
2.1.2. ERM Framework Steps ................................................................................................................. 8
3. Cybersecurity Risk Considerations Throughout the ERM Process....................................................11
3.1.1. Notional Risk Management Roles .............................................................................................. 15
3.1.2. Risk Management Strategy ........................................................................................................ 16
3.2.1. Inventory and Valuation of Assets ............................................................................................. 20
3.2.2. Determination of Potential Threats ........................................................................................... 21
3.2.3. Determination of Exploitable and Susceptible Conditions......................................................... 23
3.2.4. Evaluation of Potential Consequences ....................................................................................... 24
3.3.1. Risk Analysis Types ..................................................................................................................... 24
3.3.2. Techniques for Estimating Likelihood and Impact of Consequences ......................................... 26

3.5.1. Applying Security Controls to Reduce Risk Exposure ................................................................. 31
3.5.2. Responding to Residual Risk ....................................................................................................... 32
3.5.3. When a Risk Event Passes Without Triggering the Event........................................................... 33
3.6.1. Continuous Risk Monitoring ....................................................................................................... 34
3.6.2. Key Risk Indicators and Key Performance Indicators ................................................................. 36
3.6.3. Continuous Improvement .......................................................................................................... 36

4. Cybersecurity Risk Management as Part of a Portfolio View ..........................................................45
iv

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

References.......................................................................................................................................53
Appendix A. List of Symbols, Abbreviations, and Acronyms ...............................................................56
Appendix B. Glossary .......................................................................................................................60
Appendix C. Federal Government Sources for Identifying Risks .........................................................63
Appendix D. Excerpt from a Notional Cybersecurity Risk Register (CSRR) ...........................................64
Appendix E. Notional Enterprise Risk Register...................................................................................65
Appendix F. Change Log ...................................................................................................................68

List of Tables
Table 1. Descriptions of notional cybersecurity risk register template elements.................................12
Table 2. Response types for negative cybersecurity risks ...................................................................30
Table 3. Examples of proactive risk management activities ...............................................................34
Table 4. Response types for positive cybersecurity risks ....................................................................39
Table 5. Excerpt from a notional enterprise risk register ...................................................................42
Table 6. Descriptions of the notional enterprise risk register elements ..............................................43
Table 7. Illustrative example of a risk profile (derived from [3]) .........................................................46
Table 8. Notional enterprise risk portfolio view for a private corporation ..........................................48
Table 9. Excerpt from a notional cybersecurity risk register ...............................................................64
Table 10. Notional enterprise risk register ........................................................................................65

List of Figures
Fig. 1. Enterprise hierarchy for cybersecurity risk management ...........................................................3
Fig. 2. Notional risk management life cycle .........................................................................................8
Fig. 3. Risk register information flow among system, organization, and enterprise levels ................... 10
Fig. 4. Notional cybersecurity risk register template ..........................................................................12
Fig. 5. Likelihood and impact matrix derived .....................................................................................29
Fig. 6. Example of a quantitative risk measure: loss exceedance curve ...............................................29
Fig. 7. Integration of CSRRs into enterprise risk profile ......................................................................40
Fig. 8. Notional information and decision flows diagram with numbered steps ..................................49

v

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Acknowledgments

The authors thank everyone who contributed and provided feedback to Revision 1 of this
publication, including: Daniel Eliot; Annamaria Colon Ortiz (Cyber Risk and Advisory Consultant,
Booz Allen Hamilton); Charles Livingston (Cybersecurity Risk Management Portfolio Manager,
Department of Health and Human Services); Denise Leung (Senior Risk Advisor, Department of
Justice); Thomas Scott Crumbaugh (Emergency Preparedness & Response Operations,
Department of Health and Human Services); Dr. Robert Mark (Managing Director, Black
Diamond); Andrew Shea (President, CRFQ); Xiang Zheng Teo (Vice President of Advisory, Ensign
InfoSecurity); The FAIR Institute - Standards Committee Members: Michael Coden (Cofounder
and Associate Director, Cybersecurity at MIT Sloan); Pankaj Goyal (Director, Standards and
Research, FAIR Institute); Alexander Holbrook (Principal, Boston Consulting Group (BCG)); Jack
Jones (Author and Chairman Emeritus, FAIR Institute); Pierre Olodo (Senior Lead, Cyber Risk,
Richemont); Mike Radigan (Senior Advisor, Cisco); Jan Reich (Data Protection & Risk
Management, Novartis); Rob Moore (VP, Technology Risk Management, Mastercard); and
Denny Wan (Chair, Reasonable Security Institute); FAIR Institute Management (Nick Sanna
(President & Founder); Todd Tucker (Managing Director); Bernadette Dunn (Head of
Education); Luke Bader (Director of Member Programs); and Other Contributing Members: (AJ
Anand (Director, Transformation and Continuous Improvement, Global Security, ADP); Heather
Dart (Senior Manager, Information Risk Management, Danaher Corporation); Dana Haubold
(Cybersecurity Advisor, DH Cyber Security Consultancy); Glen Garmes (CISO, Old Republic
International); Marko Hamel (Product Security & Risk Expert, SAP); Anthony Leatherwood
(Director, Technology Risk and Cybersecurity, Plains All American); Vincent Milette (GRC
Transformation Delivery Manager, Air Canada); Steve Reznik (Lead Security Analyst, TriNet);
and Timothy Szerlong (Information Security Risk Management Consultant, Unum)).
The authors also wish to thank all of the individuals, organizations, and enterprises that
contributed to the creation of the original version of this document. This includes Donna
Dodson, Naomi Lefkovitz, Amy Mahn, Rodney Petersen, Victoria Yan Pillitteri, Ron Ross, Adam
Sedgewick, Isabel Van Wyk, Jim Foti, Daniel Eliot, and Kevin Stine of NIST; Kelly Hood and Tom
Conkle of Optic Cyber Solutions; Larry Feldman, Heather Mills, and Daniel Topper of Huntington
Ingalls Industries; and Mat Heyman of Impresa Management Solutions. They also thank the
organizations and individuals who provided feedback on the original public comment drafts.

vi

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Executive Summary
For federal agencies, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-11 defines risk as
“the effect of uncertainty on objectives” [1]. The effect of uncertainty on enterprise mission and
business objectives may then be considered an “enterprise risk” that must be similarly
managed. An enterprise is an organization that exists at the top level of a hierarchy with unique
risk management responsibilities. Managing risks at that level is known as enterprise risk
management (ERM) and calls for understanding the core risks that an enterprise faces,
determining how best to address those risks, and ensuring that the necessary actions are taken.
In the Federal Government, ERM is considered “an effective agency-wide approach to
addressing the full spectrum of the organization’s significant risks by understanding the
combined impact of risks as an interrelated portfolio rather than addressing risks only within
silos” [1].
Cybersecurity risk is an important type of risk for any enterprise. Other risks include financial,
legal, legislative, operational, privacy, reputational, safety, strategic, and supply chain risks [2].
As part of an ERM program, senior leaders (e.g., corporate officers, government senior
executive staff) often have fiduciary and reporting responsibilities that other organizational
stakeholders do not, so they have a unique responsibility to holistically manage the combined
set of risks, including cybersecurity risk. The individual organizations that comprise every
enterprise are experiencing an increase in the frequency, creativity, and severity of
cybersecurity attacks. All organizations and enterprises, regardless of size or type, should
ensure that cybersecurity risks receive appropriate attention as they carry out their ERM
functions. Since enterprises are at various degrees of maturity regarding the implementation of
risk management, the authors of this document offer NIST’s cybersecurity risk management
(CSRM) expertise to help organizations improve the cybersecurity risk information they provide
as inputs to their enterprise’s ERM programs.
Many resources document ERM frameworks and processes, such as well-known frameworks
from the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO), Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) circulars, and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). They generally
include similar approaches: identify context, identify risks, analyze risks, estimate risk
importance, determine and execute risk response, and identify and respond to changes over
time. A critical risk document used to track and communicate risk information for all of these
steps throughout the enterprise is called a risk register [1]. 1 The risk register provides a formal
communication vehicle for sharing and coordinating cybersecurity risk activities as an input to
ERM decision-makers. For example, cybersecurity risk registers are key aspects of managing and
communicating about those particular risks. 2
At higher levels in the enterprise structure, those cybersecurity and other risk registers are
aggregated, normalized, and prioritized into risk profiles. A risk profile is defined by OMB
Circular A-123 as “a prioritized inventory of the most significant risks identified and assessed
1 OMB Circular A-11 defines a risk register as “a repository of risk information including the data understood about risks over time” [1].

2 Organizations creating a risk management program for the first time should not wait until the risk register is completed before addressing

obvious issues. However, over time, it should become the ordinary means of communicating risk information.

1

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

through the risk assessment process versus a complete inventory of risks” [3]. While it is critical
that enterprises address potential negative impacts on mission and business objectives, it is
equally critical (and required for federal agencies) that enterprises plan for success. For
example, OMB states that “the [Enterprise Risk] profile must identify sources of uncertainty,
both positive (opportunities) and negative (threats).” Other sources, such as the Project
Management Institute’s Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) Guide,3 support the
need to distinguish both positive and negative risks. Enterprise-level decision-makers use the
risk profile to choose which enterprise risks to address, allocate resources, and delegate
responsibilities to appropriate risk owners. ERM programs should define terminology, formats,
criteria, and other guidance for risk inputs from lower levels of the enterprise.
Cybersecurity risk inputs to ERM programs should be documented and tracked in written
cybersecurity risk registers 4 that comply with the ERM program guidance. However, many
enterprises do not communicate their cybersecurity risk guidance or risk responses in
consistent, repeatable ways. Methods such as quantifying cybersecurity risk in dollars and
aggregating cybersecurity risks are often ad hoc and are sometimes not performed with the
same rigor as methods for quantifying other types of risk within the enterprise.
In addition to widely using cybersecurity risk registers, improving the risk measurement and
analysis methods used in CSRM will boost the quality of the risk information provided to ERM.
In turn, this practice promotes better management of cybersecurity at the enterprise level and
correlates directly with the enterprise’s objectives.
CSRM and ERM are concurrent cycles with many points of commonality and integration. NIST
framework documents, specifically the Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0 and Special
Publication (SP) 800-221A, provide methods for performing CSRM and integrating the results.
The concepts detailed in this IR 8286 series are directly incorporated into both the CSF 2.0
(CSRM) and SP 800-221A (integrating with ERM) frameworks. Improving the measurement and
communications methods used (e.g., using cybersecurity risk registers) can improve the quality
of risk information, promote enterprise-wide CSRM, and support enterprise-level decisionmaking in language that is already understood by senior executives. Improved communications
will also help executives and corporate officers understand the challenges that cybersecurity
professionals face when providing the information that they are accustomed to receiving for
other types of risk.

3 https://www.pmi.org/standards/pmbok

4 Formats include risk register data displayed on dashboards, GRC tools, and file formats for communicating risk register data, such as the

spreadsheet (CSV) and JSON formats.

2

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

1. Introduction
The terms organization and enterprise are often used interchangeably. 5 However, for the
purposes of this document, an organization is defined as an entity of any size, complexity, or
position within a larger organizational structure (e.g., a federal agency or company) [5]. An
enterprise is an organization by this definition, but its primary functions subsist at the top level
of the hierarchy, where individual senior leaders have unique risk management responsibilities.
Most CSRM responsibilities tend to be carried out by individual organizations within an
enterprise. In contrast, the responsibility for tracking key enterprise risks and their impacts on
objectives is held by top-level corporate officers and board members who have fiduciary and
reporting duties that are not performed anywhere else in the enterprise.
Fig. 1 depicts a notional enterprise with subordinate organizations, illustrating that one of those
subordinate organizations is itself an enterprise.

Fig. 1. Enterprise hierarchy for cybersecurity risk management

Both government and industry are represented in this depiction. Consider the example of the
Department of Commerce as a higher-level enterprise with bureaus (e.g., Census Bureau,
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration [NOAA], NIST) as lower-level enterprises and
subordinates (e.g., NOAA’s National Weather Service, NIST laboratories) representing
organizations. In industry, consider mergers and acquisitions in which an enterprise acquires
another company that itself was an enterprise and then subordinates it within the higher-level
enterprise’s conglomeration of organizations and systems. 6 Each enterprise is supported by
various systems that are defined as “a discrete set of information resources organized for the
collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information”
[5].
5 For example, IR 8170 [4] uses enterprise risk management and organization-wide risk management interchangeably. The scope of IR 8170

includes smaller enterprises than this publication does, so an enterprise as defined in IR 8170 may be comprised of a single organization. The
enterprises discussed in this publication have more complex compositions.
6 An enterprise can be thought of structurally as a portfolio (or set of portfolios). Just as a portfolio can be a combination of programs, projects,
and lower-level portfolios, so too can an enterprise be comprised of one or more systems, organizations, and subordinate enterprises.

3

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

1.1. Purpose and Scope
NIST is providing this document to help improve communications (including risk information
sharing) between and among cybersecurity professionals, high-level executives, and corporate
officers at multiple levels. The goal is to assist personnel and system owners in these
enterprises and their subordinate organizations to better identify, assess, and manage
cybersecurity risks in the context of their broader mission and business objectives. 7 This
document is intended to help cybersecurity professionals understand what executives and
corporate officers need to carry out ERM, including what data to collect, what analyses to
perform, and how to consolidate and condition this discipline-specific risk information so that it
provides useful inputs for ERM programs. This document will also help high-level executives
and corporate officers understand the challenges that cybersecurity professionals face in
providing them with relevant information. Because enterprise stakeholders are accustomed to
receiving reports regarding many types of risk, guidance on cybersecurity that is consistent with
these other risk categories will support well-crafted and actionable risk appetite and risk
tolerance decisions and statements.
Government and private industry CSRM and ERM programs are similar but often involve
different oversight and reporting requirements, such as Congressional testimony versus a
regulatory filing. For this reason, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) is often
cited due to its dual role in providing guidance to both public and private organizations
regarding ERM and the fact that OMB adopted much of its language in its guidance.
The content within this document bridges existing private industry risk management processes
with federal cybersecurity risk requirements derived from OMB Circular A-130 [6]. It also
introduces concepts that are further developed in subsequent documents in the IR 8286 series,
such as communicating risk, consistently identifying threats and risks, estimating likelihood and
impact, calculating risk exposure, establishing and using risk reserves, monitoring risk, reporting
risk, and integrating with ERM programs. Furthermore, this document contains guidance for
linking the CSF 2.0 [7] (specifically, its Govern Function), the Information and Communications
Technology Risk Outcomes Framework (SP 800-221A) [8], and ERM processes. These concurrent
risk management processes inform and are informed by each other to create a vertically and
horizontally integrated risk management process that connects the boardroom to the server
room.
This document references some materials that are specifically intended for use by federal
agencies and will be highlighted as such, but the concepts and approaches are intended to be
useful for all enterprises.
An informative reference 8 links the contents of this document with CSF v1.1 and SP 800-221A
as part of the National Online Informative References (OLIR) Program. 9 An updated OLIR will
link SP 800-221A to CSF 2.0.

Fig. 1 depicts the correlation of cybersecurity professionals (system), high-level executives without fiduciary reporting requirements
(organization), and corporate officers with fiduciary reporting requirements (enterprise), respectively.
8 See https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/olir/informative-reference-catalog/details?referenceId=78 - /.
9 See https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/informative-references for an overview of OLIR.
7

4

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

1.2. Document Structure
The remainder of this document is organized into the following major sections:
•

Section 2 provides an overview of ERM and CSRM and highlights high-level gaps
between current practices.

•

Section 3 discusses detailed cybersecurity risk considerations throughout the ERM
process and the use of the risk register to document cybersecurity risk as ERM input.

•

Section 4 considers a portfolio view of risk at the enterprise level based on normalizing
and aggregating risk registers into an enterprise risk register (ERR) and then applying
prioritization to it to generate an enterprise risk profile (ERP) in support of senior
executive decision-making.

•

The References section provides links to external sites and publications that offer
additional information.

•

Appendix A lists the acronyms used in the document.

•

Appendix B provides a glossary of the terminology used in this document.

•

Appendix C lists Federal Government sources for identifying risks.

•

Appendix E provides a notional excerpt of a cybersecurity risk register.

•

Appendix E provides a notional enterprise risk register.

•

Appendix F provides a change log for this document.

5

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

2. Gaps in Managing Cybersecurity Risk as an ERM Input
OMB Circular A-11 defines risk as “the effect of uncertainty on objectives” [1]. The effect of
uncertainty on enterprise mission and business objectives may then be considered an
“enterprise risk” that must be similarly managed. The process of managing risks at the
enterprise level is known as ERM and calls for:
•

Identifying and understanding the core risks facing an enterprise,

•

Determining how best to address those risks, and

•

Ensuring that the necessary actions occur to address the risks.

This publication focuses on recognizing and incorporating cybersecurity risk 10 considerations
within ERM and complements other NIST documents by informing and extending existing
guidance to respond to risks to an enterprise’s data, information, and technology assets.
Integration draws on CSRM and the basics of ERM, which informs and is informed by various
risks at subordinate levels. Comparing the results of CSRM activities with those required for
effective input to ERM enables enterprise stakeholders to identify opportunities to close gaps.
2.1. Overview of ERM
ERM requires identifying and understanding the various types of risks that an enterprise faces,
determining the probability that these risks will occur, and estimating their potential impacts.
ERM reflects a total enterprise approach to addressing the full universe of risks, examining the
panoramic view of interrelated risk portfolios, rather than addressing individual risk types
within silos.
Cybersecurity risk is one portion of the spectrum of an enterprise’s core risks, which may
include numerous risk types, including compliance, financial, legal, legislative, operational,
reputational, and strategic. This list can easily be expanded to other risk disciplines, such as
safety, privacy, and supply chains that ultimately anchor in ERM. In this way, ERM enables the
holistic management of the combined set of enterprise risks.
The COSO publication, Enterprise Risk Management – Integrating with Strategy and
Performance, defines ERM as the “culture, capabilities, and practices that organizations
integrate with strategy-setting and apply when they carry out that strategy, with a purpose of
managing risk in creating, preserving, and realizing value” [10]. Public and private enterprises
have a common primary purpose for ERM: to safeguard the enterprise’s mission, finances (e.g.,
net revenue, capital, and free cash flow), and reputation (e.g., stakeholder trust) in the face of
natural, accidental, and adversarial threats.
Enterprise Risk Objectives
It is helpful to consider enterprise risks in relation to achieving strategic and operational
objectives as typically outlined in an organizational strategic plan. ERM risk profiles often
10 Cybersecurity risk is an effect of uncertainty on information and technology. Cybersecurity risks relate to the loss of the confidentiality,

integrity, or availability of information, data, or information (or control) systems and reflect the potential adverse impacts to organizational
operations (i.e., mission, functions, image, or reputation) and assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation [9].

6

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

include four kinds of objectives: strategic, operations (operational effectiveness and efficiency),
reporting (e.g., reliability), and compliance (e.g., with applicable laws and regulations). While
there may be some overlap of risk among the categories of objectives, understanding
uncertainty as it affects these objectives helps inform effective and timely decision-making. In
turn, context and categorization processes support risk guidance back to subordinate levels.
Effective ERM balances achieving security objectives with optimizing limited resources.
Enterprise Risk Direction
This document draws on ERM principles regarding integration with culture, strategy, and
performance. One such principle is that an enterprise must manage risk to strategy and
business objectives in relation to its risk appetite — that is, the amount and type of risk that an
organization is willing to take in meeting its objectives[10]. Risk appetite is established by the
enterprise’s most senior-level leadership and serves as the guidepost for decisions, such as
setting strategy and selecting objectives.
Another important ERM concept is risk tolerance — the organization or stakeholders’ readiness
to bear the remaining risk after responding to or considering the risk to achieve its objectives
(while recognizing that such tolerance can be influenced by legal or regulatory requirements).
For federal entities, risk tolerance represents “the acceptable level of variance in performance
relative to the achievement of objectives” [3].
While risk tolerance is often defined at the enterprise level, OMB allows for organizational
discretion, stating that risk tolerance is “generally established at the program, objective, or
component level” [3], which can include the organization levels depicted in Fig. 1. Risk
tolerance is always interpreted and applied by the receiving custodians of the risk management
discipline (e.g., cybersecurity, legal, privacy) including the system level.11 For example, a
statement of risk appetite might be: “Email service shall be available during the large majority
of a 24-hour period.” An associated risk tolerance statement for this defined appetite is
narrower: “Email services shall not be interrupted for more than five minutes during core
hours.”
Senior enterprise executives provide risk guidance to the organizations within their purview,
including advice on mission priority, risk appetite and tolerance, and capital and operating
budgets to manage known risks. Risk appetite and tolerance statements are the usual means
for communicating this guidance. Organizations then manage and monitor processes that
properly balance the risks and resource allocation with the value created by information and
technology. Measurements (e.g., from key risk indicators, or KRIs) demonstrate where risk
tolerances have been exceeded or validate that the enterprise is operating within the defined
appetite. IR 8286A includes detailed examples of risk appetite and risk tolerance statements
and how they are interrupted and applied with the associated risk defined, managed, and
communicated back to executive management via the risk register [12]. ERM processes should
aid senior enterprise executives by providing them with a portfolio view of key risks across the
enterprise (see Sec. 4).
11 SP 800-39, Managing Information Security Risk: Organization, Mission, and Information System View [11], uses the term “risk tolerance” to

collectively refer to what this publication differentiates into two terms: “risk tolerance” and “risk appetite.”

7

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

2.1.1. Common Use of ERM
Public officials and corporate boards typically measure and weigh the impact and likelihood of
each type of significant risk (e.g., market, operational, labor, geopolitical, cyber) to determine
individual and total impacts on the enterprise’s mission, finances, and reputation 12. They then
determine their risk appetite and resource allocations for each type of risk commensurate with
likelihood and impact and balanced with all calculated enterprise risk exposures (i.e., the
product of likelihood and impact) and provide guidance to their corporate officers at the
enterprise level and to high-level executives at the organizational level (see Fig. 1). This includes
guidance on ceilings for capital expenditures (CapEx) and operating expenses (OpEx) and
objectives for free cash flow. Guidance is then issued to continue, accelerate, reduce, delay, or
cancel significant enterprise initiatives while making decisions about prudent risk disclosures
and balancing the competing objectives of a) properly informing stakeholders and overseers
(including regulators) through required filings and statements at hearings with b) protecting
sensitive information from competitors and adversaries.
2.1.2. ERM Framework Steps
This document presents the steps of a notional ERM process as it relates to cybersecurity risks,
as shown in Fig. 2. 13

Fig. 2. Notional risk management life cycle

While these steps provide the basis for this document’s structure, enterprises should use
whatever ERM approach they favor with the assumption that it will contain the content of
12 Some enterprises may be required to determine materiality of cybersecurity risks or incidents. SEC regulations have been updated to include

these actions. https://www.sec.gov/rules-regulations/2023/07/s7-09-22#33-11216
13 This notional ERM process is adapted from several industry models including ISO 31000 and the Federal ERM Playbook [2].

8

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

these steps in some way. SP 800-221A [8] provides a risk outcome framework that guides users
on implementing these steps in their information and communications technology (ICT) and
ERM activities.
Fig. 2 depicts six steps that are discussed in further detail in Sec. 3:
1. Identify the context. Context is the environment in which the enterprise operates and is
influenced by the risks involved.
2. Identify the risks. This means identifying the comprehensive set of positive and negative
risks (i.e., determining which events could enhance or impede objectives), including the
risks of failing to pursue an opportunity.
3. Analyze the risks. This involves estimating the likelihood that each identified risk event
will occur and the potential impact of the consequences described.
4. Prioritize the risks. The exposure is calculated for each risk based on likelihood and
potential impact, and the risks are prioritized based on their exposure.
5. Plan and execute risk response strategies. The appropriate response is determined for
each risk, and the decisions are informed by risk guidance from leadership.
6. Monitor, evaluate, and adjust. Continual monitoring ensures that enterprise risk
conditions remain within the defined risk appetite levels as cybersecurity risks change.
Enterprise risks should be recorded to document discipline-specific risks (e.g., cybersecurity,
legal, financial). ISO defines this risk register (or risk log) as a “record of information about
identified risks”. Cybersecurity risk registers are a key aspect of managing cybersecurity risks
within an enterprise, and organizations are strongly urged to adopt and integrate them into
whatever risk management methodology they are currently using. Their use as a shared
organizing method for cybersecurity risk ensures seamless communication with senior decisionmakers.
Each register evolves and matures as other risk activities take place. Section 3 of this document
contains more information on cybersecurity risk registers.
2.2. The Gap Between CSRM Output and ERM Input
Effectively balancing the benefits of technology with the potential risks and consequences of a
threat event is more likely to result in effective CSRM that supports a comprehensive ERM
approach. Attempting to avoid all cybersecurity risk might inadvertently stifle innovation, while
applying technology without regard for cybersecurity, legal, regulatory, or compliance risks may
lead to undesirable consequences.
The separation between enterprise risk governance and cybersecurity risk governance can be
emphasized by the introduction of complex, adaptive systems. It is common for enterprises to
handle these ever-growing systems as a single source of risk without understanding the
9

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

interconnected nature of cybersecurity risks and the operational risks. Enterprises should
engage in complex behavior analysis of their systems from an enterprise perspective to
separate the knowable cybersecurity risks from the unknowable, emergent risks that could be
realized. By reducing their risk footprint from aggregated and analyzed enterprise risks,
enterprises can limit the impacts of a realized risk.
Enterprises, organizations, and practitioners should consider the influence of cybersecurity risks
on achieving enterprise strategic, operations, reporting, and compliance objectives. Enterprise
risk officers should clearly communicate these enterprise objectives so that cybersecurity
practitioners can take actions and provide relevant risk inputs to ERM programs. Enterprise
leaders should determine which assets are essential to support those objectives, after which a
cybersecurity risk assessment can be conducted on those critical assets. This process is further
described in IR 8286D [13]. For ERM purposes, each high value system 14 and organization
should have a cybersecurity risk register that explicitly records and communicates risk decisions
that consider the enterprise risk strategy. The contents of those registers should be aggregated,
normalized, analyzed, and prioritized at higher levels to allow for the easy transfer of
cybersecurity risk knowledge from CSRM to ERM. Fig. 3 depicts the flow of information.

Fig. 3. Risk register information flow among system, organization, and enterprise levels

Improving the risk measurement and analysis methods used in CSRM 15 and widely using
cybersecurity risk registers will enhance the quality of the risk information provided to ERM.
This would also promote better management of cybersecurity risk at the enterprise level and
improve enterprise-level decision-making.
14
OMB Circular A-130 defines an information system as “a discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing,
maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information” [6].
15 The NIST Cybersecurity Framework [7] describes CSRM progression through the four Tiers — Partial, Risk-Informed, Repeatable, and Adaptive
— where risk management processes mature from ad hoc to formalized and agile.

10

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

3. Cybersecurity Risk Considerations Throughout the ERM Process
Cybersecurity risk registers consistently capture, organize, and communicate risk-related
information (e.g., risk assessments, evaluation decisions, responses, and monitoring activities)
from the individual system level up through the organizational level and finally to the highest
enterprise level. Considering those risks as risk scenarios presents detailed risk information in
context. A complete risk scenario describes the source of uncertainty, any predisposing
conditions, the resources affected, and the anticipated result. For cybersecurity risks, a scenario
might include a threat source, a threat event, a vulnerability that the threat source might
exploit, any enterprise assets that may be impacted by the threat, and the resulting harmful
impact. For example, “Construction activity severs a critical fiber optic cable that was not
protected in conduit, interrupting communications to the data center and resulting in the loss
of availability of enterprise financial systems.” Detailed information about the use of scenarios
for risk identification and analysis will be described in a future NIST publication.
As introduced in previous sections, a key goal of CSRM is to help enterprise stakeholders
optimize risk and resources to support enterprise business objectives. The information and
technology being secured provide value to the enterprise by supporting one or more business
needs. The CSRM process is intended to help ensure that the enterprise can realize that value
while achieving stakeholders’ expectations regarding the protection of confidentiality, integrity,
and availability. Each of the following stages of CSRM as an ERM input should be based on the
potential impact of a given risk scenario on the enterprise and mission and business objectives.
This section references two types of controls in support of ERM, each of which is essential and
should not be confused with the other:
1. Internal controls are the overarching mechanisms used to achieve and monitor
enterprise objectives. The COSO Internal Control – Integrated Framework defines
internal control as “a process affected by an entity’s board of directors, management
and other personnel designed to provide reasonable assurance of the achievement of
objectives” [14]. These internal controls are an important factor at the enterprise level.
2. Security controls represent the “safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an
information system or an organization to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and
availability of the system and its information” [6]. Security controls provide
management, administrative, and technical methods for responding to cybersecurity
risks by deterring, detecting, preventing, or correcting threats and vulnerabilities.
Fig. 4 shows a notional cybersecurity risk register template. 16 An example of a completed CSRR
is provided in Appendix D.

16 Depending on the organization’s risk strategy, the risk register may contain many more (or fewer) fields that detail the risk metadata. That

information may also be captured elsewhere but have a connected/linked path to the risk register content.

11

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Fig. 4. Notional cybersecurity risk register template

The remainder of Sec. 3 provides guidance and useful information for completing and using
cybersecurity risk registers and integrating them with ERM. The notional template includes
many of the elements suggested by OMB Circular A-11, which states that “Typically, a risk
register contains a description of the risk, the impact if the risk should occur, the probability of
its occurrence, mitigation strategies, risk owners, and a ranking to identify higher priority risks”
[1].
Risk documentation often references inherent risk which describes risk conditions that would
exist without any organizational interventions. In a typical scenario, an enterprise will have
taken at least small steps to help mitigate risks, so this publication typically refers to current
risk, i.e., risk that has been at least partially addressed by management actions.
Table 1 describes each of the elements in the notional cybersecurity risk register template.
Table 1. Descriptions of notional cybersecurity risk register template elements
Register Element
ID (Risk Identifier)
Priority
Risk Description

Risk Category

Current Assessment —
Likelihood
Current Assessment —
Impact

Description
A sequential numeric identifier for referring to a risk in the risk register.
A relative indicator of the criticality of this entry in the risk register, either expressed
in ordinal value (e.g., 1, 2, 3) or in reference to a given scale (e.g., high, moderate,
low).
A brief explanation of the cybersecurity risk scenario that could impact the
organization and enterprise. Organizations should utilize common phrasing and
elements to their risk descriptions or risk scenarios (e.g., threats, assets, methods,
and impacts are present in every risk scenario).
An organizing construct that enables multiple risk register entries to be consolidated
by common theme or topic (e.g., using SP 800-53 Control Families: Access Control
[AC], Audit and Accountability [AU], as illustrated in Fig. 7). Consistent risk
categorization is helpful for comparing risk registers during the risk aggregation step
of ERM.
Before any risk response, an estimation of the probability that this scenario will
occur. On the first iteration of the risk cycle, this may also be considered the initial
assessment, whereas subsequent cycles refer to this as inherent.
Analysis of the potential benefits or consequences that might result from this
scenario if no additional response is provided.

12

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025
Register Element
Current Assessment —
Exposure Rating

Risk Response Type
Risk Response Cost
Risk Response
Description
Risk Owner

Status

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management
Description
A calculation of the probability of risk exposure based on the likelihood estimate
and the determined benefits or consequences of the risk. Throughout this report,
the combination of impact and likelihood is referred to as exposure. Other common
frameworks use different terms for this combination, such as level of risk (e.g., ISO
31000, SP 800-30r1).
The risk response (sometimes referred to as the risk treatment) for handling the
identified risk. Values for risk response types are listed in Table 2 and Table 4 of this
document.
The estimated cost of applying the risk response.
A brief description of the risk response. For example, “Implement software
management application XYZ to ensure that software platforms and applications are
inventoried,” or “Develop and implement a process to ensure the timely receipt of
threat intelligence from [name of specific information sharing forums and sources].”
The designated party responsible and accountable for ensuring that the risk is
maintained in accordance with enterprise requirements. The risk owner may work
with a designated risk manager who is responsible for managing and monitoring the
selected risk response.
A field for tracking the current condition of the risk and any subsequent activities.

This section discusses how risk registers are used within organizations as a method for
communicating and tracking cybersecurity risks over time. Section 3.8 provides a notional
example of activities at the enterprise level by which the prioritized organizational
cybersecurity risk registers are correlated, aggregated, and normalized. The key risks are
compiled into an enterprise risk profile.
The risk register model shown here illustrates a single point in time. The actual composition of
the register will vary among enterprises and may contain more or fewer data points than those
described in Table 1. For example, some organizations may wish to include both the current risk
assessment (before risk response is applied) and the anticipated changes to risk that are
expected to result based on the risk response. Regardless of which model is selected for use as
a risk register, the enterprise should ensure that the model is used in a consistent and iterative
way. As the risk professional progresses through the steps in Sec. 3, the risk register will be
populated with relevant information. Once decisions have been made as part of a subsequent
review of the risks, the agreed-upon risk response becomes the current state after mitigations
are put in place, and the cycle begins anew.
While the risk register itself can be used to document and communicate summary information
about current risks and responses, it may be necessary to supplement the register with a risk
detail record, as detailed by the risk strategy. 17 A risk detail record documents the
considerations, assumptions, and results of risk management activities to keep the formal risk
register a summary rather than a large, detailed report. It also enables the enterprise to record
the personnel involved in those considerations, any actions to be taken, and schedules. This
detailed risk record may be stored and maintained in a written record, as part of an
organizational knowledge management system, or as a database entry in risk-specific software,
such as a governance, risk, and compliance (GRC) application.
17 A notional example of a Risk Detail Record is available in IR 8286A. [12]

13

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Regardless of the risk strategy chosen, there should be a connection between the data in the
risk register and the risk detail report. The contents of a risk detail record may include:
•

Information regarding the risk itself, such as a detailed risk scenario description and
underlying threats, vulnerabilities, assets threatened, risk category, and risk assessment
results

•

The roles involved in risk decisions and management, such as the risk owner, risk
manager, action owner for specific activities, stakeholders involved in risk response
decisions, contractual agreements for supply chain/external partners

•

Schedule considerations, such as the date on which the risk was first documented, the
date of the last risk assessment, completion dates for mitigations, and the date of the
next expected assessment

•

Risk response decisions and follow-up, including detailed plans, status, and risk
indicators

The examples above only illustrate the current risk assessment (i.e., likelihood, impact, and
resulting exposure value). Organizations will need to determine which assessments should be
reflected in the risk register. This report describes the risk register as an input into the risk
management decision process, so only the current risk assessment results are depicted. If the
register is to be updated after the risk response, the results of a post-response assessment
could be reflected in the register as the residual risk. Organizations might even document the
target residual risk, which is the desired risk state based on risk appetite/tolerance (see Sec.
3.2). Because the risk management process is cyclical, assessment results may be different in
future iterations.
SP 800-30r1, Appendix K [15], describes essential cybersecurity risk
elements that might be recorded in a cybersecurity risk assessment
report (RAR). An RAR and a cybersecurity risk register are
complementary. The RAR provides a detailed record of the planning,
execution, and evaluation of identified risks and can also be used to
inform the risk register. The RAR could also be used as the risk detail
record to document additional information, such as risk assumptions,
constraints, and rationale.
3.1. Identify the Context
In the risk management life cycle shown in Fig. 2, the first step in managing cybersecurity risks
is understanding context — the environment in which the organization operates and is
influenced by the risks involved. As shown in Fig. 4, the context is not directly recorded in the
cybersecurity risk register, but it provides important input into that register by documenting
the expectations and drivers to be considered in the register’s development and maintenance.
The risk context includes two factors:
1. External context involves the expectations of outside stakeholders that affect and are
affected by the organization, such as customers, regulators, legislators, and business
14

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

partners. These stakeholders have objectives, perceptions, and expectations about how
risk will be communicated, managed, and monitored. Some external stakeholders may
be managed in a critical suppliers list. This list could be helpful to enterprises with many
suppliers or providers.
2. Internal context relates to many of the factors within the organization and relevant
cybersecurity considerations across the enterprise. This includes any internal factors
that influence CSRM, such as the organization and enterprise’s objectives, governance,
culture, risk appetite, risk tolerances, policies, and practices.
Several NIST frameworks begin with determining these context factors. For example, the Risk
Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations [16] includes a Prepare
step to identify organizational strategy, management methods, and roles. Similarly, the CSF 2.0
[7] Category Organizational Context within the Govern Function (GV.OC) states, “The
circumstances — mission, stakeholder expectations, dependencies, and legal, regulatory, and
contractual requirements — surrounding the organization’s cybersecurity risk management
decisions are understood.” These context exercises identify organizational mission drivers and
priorities used for subsequent assessment and planning.
3.1.1. Notional Risk Management Roles
An important element of the internal and external context is identifying the relevant work roles
for each stage. Defining the types of stakeholders and recording the names of personnel in
those roles who are involved at each stage will support risk communication and timely decisionmaking. The CSF 2.0 Category titled Roles, Responsibilities, and Authorities in the Govern
Function (GV.RR) states, “Cybersecurity roles, responsibilities, and authorities to foster
accountability, performance assessment, and continuous improvement are established and
communicated” [7]. It may be helpful to document responsibilities in the form of a RACI chart 18
that designates which roles are responsible, accountable, consulted, or informed about various
activities.
Section 4.1 of NIST IR 8286C [17] contains a table of work roles for consideration in both
government and private-sector use cases. Similarly, the NICE Workforce Framework [18] also
contains work roles for consideration. Roles described in Sec. 3 and 4 of this publication may
also include internal and external individuals and groups related to the Risk Executive
Function, 19 such as:
•

Auditor — Provides independent and formal verification regarding the achievement of
enterprise objectives and the application of ERM processes.

18 A RACI chart provides a visual representation of those who are responsible (R), accountable (A), consulted (C), and informed (I).

19 According to the ERM Playbook, the Senior Accountable Official for Risk Management (SAORM) is the head of the agency and is responsible
for the oversight of information security, privacy risk management, and broader ERM processes. The Risk Executive function for each risk
discipline oversees the management of risks within each discipline. The Risk Executive function for cybersecurity would be the Cybersecurity
Risk Officer defined in this list. For enterprise-level ERM, it would be the Enterprise Risk Officer defined in this list in tandem with the ERM
Council/Steering Committee or other governing body. A similar committee-style governance function also exists in the cybersecurity space in
the form of the CIO and CISO councils. [2]

15

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

•

Other Internal Partners — Includes other enterprise stakeholders (e.g., legal affairs,
human resources, business managers) with an interest in the risk management and risk
decisions performed.

•

External Stakeholders — Includes external parties with an interest in the management
of the enterprise’s risk to an acceptable level.

•

External Partners — Personnel or organizations (e.g., service providers, vendors,
organizations that collaborate under a formal agreement) external to the enterprise
that participate in the management and communication of cybersecurity risk.

Throughout the risk management steps in Fig. 2, the use of cybersecurity risk registers helps
record the progress of management processes. Risk registers also support multi-level
stakeholder communications that are critical for enabling cybersecurity risk officers20 and other
practitioners to identify and propose ways to manage relevant cybersecurity risks.
External stakeholders and partners have key roles in identifying, managing, communicating, and
monitoring cybersecurity risks. Enterprises increasingly function interdependently with external
partners, such as material suppliers, communications and technology providers, cloud service
providers, and managed service providers. NIST recommends using cybersecurity supply chain
risk management (C-SCRM) plans and activities to ensure that external partners are wellintegrated. 21
Risk monitoring also involves determining and publishing accountable risk management roles
throughout the enterprise, including those in organizations. The relationships among these
entities should be communicated clearly, such as how a formal enterprise risk committee may
be informed by subordinate risk councils or working groups. This can help ensure crosscommunication among other groups that support risk management, such as human resources,
legal, auditing, and compliance management. Risk governance structures formalize the
relationships across all levels and operating units within an enterprise.
A significant risk to the effectiveness of cybersecurity controls and mitigation actions is the
knowledge, training, and experience of the officers in charge of a risk or set of risks. Staff
capability should be assessed in support of upstream ERM risk management effectiveness.
3.1.2. Risk Management Strategy
As part of their governance responsibilities, senior leaders should establish clear and actionable
risk management guidance based on the enterprise’s mission and objectives. Senior leaders
should clearly express guidance regarding risk appetite and risk tolerance, and those tolerance
statements should have clear and measurable boundaries where possible to define. Key
performance indicators and key risk indicators should be created to warn that these tolerance
boundaries are being approached and reported accordingly. These and many other risk
management strategies are discussed throughout the IR 8286 series.
20 The cybersecurity risk officer has the expertise to identify relevant cybersecurity risks as opposed to an enterprise risk officer who would

receive reports on such risks. The cybersecurity risk officer role is increasingly being recognized.
21 For more information on C-SCRM, see https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cyber-supply-chain-risk-management.

16

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Enterprise Risk Strategic Objectives
To ensure that the enterprise is managing risks to achieve its mission and objectives in the face
of cybersecurity risk, the CSF 2.0 Govern Function states, “The organization’s cybersecurity risk
management strategy, expectations, and policy are established, communicated, and
monitored” [7]. This statement creates a foundation for organizations implementing risk
governance and cybersecurity risk management programs. The Subcategories within the CSF
2.0 Govern Function provide outcome statements that are linked to informative references to
guide an organization in achieving and prioritizing the outcomes of the other five Functions
(i.e., Identify, Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover). Govern activities are critical for
incorporating cybersecurity into an organization’s broader ERM strategy. The CSF 2.0 Govern
Function addresses an understanding of organizational context; the establishment of
cybersecurity strategy and cybersecurity supply chain risk management; roles, responsibilities,
and authorities; policy; and the oversight of cybersecurity strategy. By implementing the CSF
2.0 Govern Function, enterprises link the context of its mission and stakeholder expectations to
cybersecurity risk management activities.
Furthermore, the CSF 2.0 Category, Risk Management Strategy, within the Govern Function
states, “The organization’s priorities, constraints, risk tolerance and appetite statements, and
assumptions are established, communicated, and used to support operational risk decisions”
[7]. These CSF Subcategories and their associated informative references are helpful to
establish and maintain processes for enterprise risk context. The IR 8286 series provides details
on implementing these CSF Functions and their subcategories’ outcome statements.
Enterprise leaders should continually review and adjust the risk strategy as the risk landscape
evolves (e.g., due to technological and environmental changes). For example, an enterprise that
is subject to outside regulation is likely to receive specific guidance regarding updated federal
statutes and directives that must be considered when evaluating acceptable risk. Through this
monitoring, enterprises can utilize the Govern Function to affect change in lower organizational
levels. This risk management strategy allows an enterprise to effectively manage a division,
business unit, or department with traceability to system-level actions.
Numerous NIST publications provide guidance regarding risk management
strategy content and development. For example, SP 800-39, Managing
Information Security Risk: Organization, Mission, and Information System View
[11], includes extensive information about setting and implementing strategy. It
states that risk management “is carried out as a holistic, organization-wide
activity that addresses risk from the strategic level to the tactical level, ensuring
that risk-based decision-making is integrated into every aspect of the
organization.” The first component of risk management addresses how
organizations frame risk or establish a risk context — that is, describing the
environment in which risk-based decisions are made. The purpose of the risk
framing component is to produce a risk management strategy that addresses
how organizations intend to assess risk, respond to risk, and monitor risk —
making explicit and transparent the risk perceptions that organizations routinely
use in making both investment and operational decisions. [11]
17

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

This guidance is applied in SP 800-37r2 through several tasks within the Prepare step, including
Task P-2, Risk Management Strategy [16].
A critical element of the enterprise risk strategy includes the consideration of supply chain risks.
By understanding the cyber supply chain in which an organization participates, the organization
can better mitigate disruptions to that supply chain (e.g., service outages, third-party
vulnerabilities, data breaches). The relevant outcomes to achieving cyber supply chain security
are described in the CSF 2.0 Category Supply Chain Risk Management (GV.SC). This Category
states, “Cyber supply chain risk management processes are identified, established, managed,
monitored, and improved by organizational stakeholders” [7].
Enterprise Risk Management Direction and Communication
Assumptions may occur at all levels of the organization, so it is important to determine internal
and external stakeholders’ expectations regarding risk communications and to use readily
understandable and agreed-upon terms and categories, such as strategic objectives,
organizational priorities, decision-making processes, and risk reporting or tracking
methodologies (e.g., regular risk management committee discussions and meetings).
An effective ERM program defines and communicates enterprise risk appetite so
that meaningful risk tolerance statements can be created, used, and monitored.
Risk appetite also reflects strategic risk direction from leadership. With strategic
risk direction communicated to the organizational and system levels of the
enterprise, cybersecurity officers can apply the guideline when establishing risk
expectations at organizational and system levels. A risk management strategy
should also include direction regarding the risk register, such as how entries
should be categorized. The use of common risk categories supports the
aggregation of various types of risk across the enterprise.
In providing risk strategy direction, it is critical that enterprise leaders also provide guidance
regarding risk calculations. Section 2 of the CSF 2.0 states, “Governance activities are critical for
incorporating cybersecurity into an organization’s broader enterprise risk management (ERM)
strategy” [7]. Therefore, establishing a common scale for assessing levels of risk will support
consistent risk estimation, measurement, and reporting. SP 800-221A identifies areas in which
this type of outcome may be achieved in the Oversight Category of the Govern Function. It
states, “Risk is identified and addressed by risk management programs according to the criteria
and expectations of risk governance” [8]. The strategy may also include guidance regarding the
mechanisms and frequency of risk reporting. By using the governance activities found in the
Govern Function of SP 800-221A [8], enterprise leaders can establish clear metrics and
assessment methodologies to provide mechanisms for reporting cybersecurity risk within the
established enterprise risk management paradigm.
As cybersecurity risks are recorded, tracked, and reassessed throughout the cycle (as depicted
in Fig. 2), this foundation ensures that various types of risk will be consistently communicated
and managed to ensure adherence to risk guidance and expectations similarly established
across other risk domains within the enterprise. The Federal ERM Practice Guidance suggests
“establishing hierarchical decision-making processes that align risk decision-making vertically

18

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

and horizontally across the organization” [19]. This action aligns the risk management strategy
for all relevant stakeholders.
3.2. Identify the Risks
The second step in the risk management life cycle involves identifying a comprehensive set of
risks and recording them in the risk register. 22 This includes events that could enhance or
impede objectives, such as the risks involved in failing to pursue opportunities. The COSO ERM
Framework further describes these terms and differentiates between actual residual risk and
target (desired) risk [10]:
•

“Inherent risk is the risk to an entity in the absence of any direct or focused actions by
management to alter its severity.”

•

“Target residual risk is the amount of risk that an entity prefers to assume in the pursuit
of its strategy and business objectives, knowing that management will implement, or
has implemented, direct or focused actions to alter the severity of the risk.”

•

“Actual residual risk is the risk remaining after management has taken action to alter its
severity. Actual residual risk should be equal to or less than the target residual risk.”

Cybersecurity risk identification is comprised of four inputs:
1. Identification of the organization’s mission-supporting assets and their valuation
2. Determination of potential threats that might jeopardize the confidentiality, integrity,
and availability of those assets and potential information and technology opportunities
that might benefit the organization
3. Consideration of the vulnerabilities of those assets
4. Evaluation of the potential consequences of risk scenarios
Risk practitioners often perform risk identification as both a top-down and bottom-up exercise.
For example, after the organization has considered critical or mission-essential functions, it may
consider various types of issues that could jeopardize those functions as an input to risk
scenario development. Subsequently, as a detailed threat and vulnerability assessment occurs,
assessors consider how those threats might affect various assets, conducting a bottom-up
assessment. This bi-directional approach helps support holistic and comprehensive risk
identification. The risk identification process is outlined below and discussed in detail in IR
8286A, Sec. 2.2 [12]. The use of a bi-directional method for risk identification is also supported
by ISO/IEC 27005:2022, Information security, cybersecurity and privacy protection — Guidance
on managing information security risks, which contains guidance on using both an event-based
and an asset-based approach to risk identification. [29]
Risk managers should leverage the business impact analysis (BIA) register to consistently
evaluate, record, and monitor the criticality and sensitivity of enterprise assets. 23 The BIA’s
22 Risk identification activities are described in SP 800-30r1, Step 2, Tasks 2-1 through 2-3 [15] and IR 8286A.

23 IR 8286D provides additional information about business impact analysis. [13] Additionally, the NIST ERM page contains supplemental

notional examples of BIA templates and methods.

19

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

purpose is to correlate the system with the critical mission and business processes and services
provided and characterize the consequences of a disruption based on that information. It also
enables contingency planners to characterize the system components, supported mission and
business processes, and interdependencies. The BIA is a key step in implementing the
Contingency Planning (CP) family of controls in SP 800-53 and the contingency planning process
overall. IR 8286D [13] details the BIA process and provides a BIA template for organizations to
use in their ERM processes that integrates with the rest of the IR 8286 series documentation.
Within a BIA, organizations list high value assets (HVAs), including those that are reported on
the balance sheet in private industry. However, the value of an asset extends beyond its
replacement cost. For example, an organization could calculate the direct costs of researching
and developing a new product, but the long-term losses of the theft of that intellectual
property could impact future revenue, share prices, enterprise reputation, and competitive
advantage. Because of this potential impact, it is critical to gain senior stakeholders’ guidance
regarding the determination of which assets are critical or sensitive. Federal agencies will have
additional guidance on how to categorize HVAs. The relative importance of each enterprise
asset will be a necessary input for considering the impact portion of the risk analysis.
Following an HVA determination, the following steps inform the BIA:
1. Determine the risk appetite and tolerances for the relevant assets.
2. Perform a criticality and sensitivity analysis of relevant assets.
3. Communicate those analyses with other IR 8286 series processes.
4. Normalize and aggregate cybersecurity risk registers into enterprise cybersecurity risk
registers.
5. Executives evaluate enterprise cybersecurity risk registers.
6. Communicate changes to risk appetite back down to managers to restart the process.
3.2.1. Inventory and Valuation of Assets
Since cybersecurity risk partly reflects the effect of uncertainty on digital components that
support enterprise objectives, practitioners identify the assets that are necessary to achieve
those objectives. NIST, in SP 800-37r2, points out that risk could impact “organizational
operations (including mission, functions, image, or reputation), organizational assets, or
individuals” [16]. The CSF 2.0 describes assets as “…data, hardware, software, systems,
facilities, services, people…that enable the organization to achieve business purposes” [7]. A
core concept in ERM is prioritizing attention and resources on assets that have the greatest
impact on an enterprise’s ability to achieve its mission and, in the case of federal agencies, on
the public. This is one way in which cybersecurity risk is optimized; risks that affect the most
valuable resources are ultimately assigned the largest risk exposure value based on the impact
and likelihood metrics.
Keeping track of an organization’s assets has always been a challenge. Personnel assets may not
only include the internal workforce but also external service providers and third-party partners,

20

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

as described in Sec. 3.1. Digital asset tracking problems have been exacerbated by the
proliferation of mobile devices (e.g., smartphones, tablets), the Internet of Things (IoT), cloud
computing, and bring-your-own-device (BYOD), as well as the convergence of IT and
operational technology (OT) systems. It is increasingly difficult to know which computing
devices the organization uses, where the organization’s data is stored, or how and when it is
transmitted, especially when devices and data are constantly changing. Incomplete or
inaccurate information on technology assets means that it is not possible to fully quantify those
assets or the impacts of cybersecurity risks.
While a BIA may be a good top-down approach, it also receives input and status from the
bottom-up aggregation processes of the risk register to ensure that risks are adequately
understood as the enterprise’s technology landscape shifts. Organizations use cybersecurity risk
assessments to categorize asset criticality and sensitivity (see Fig. 2 in IR 8286D [13]). These
assessments will be used when updating the BIA register and providing feedback to the
cybersecurity risk registers (CSRRs) in a bottom-up process (see Fig. 1 in IR 8286D [13]). By using
both top-down and bottom-up analysis processes, the organization manages risk by missiondriven strategy and asset-informed data.
3.2.2. Determination of Potential Threats
Cybersecurity risk is not inherently good or bad. Rather, it represents the effects of uncertain
circumstances, so risk managers should consider a broad array of potential positive and
negative risks. The following sections primarily deal with negative risks. Additional information
about balancing them with positive risks and opportunities is provided in Sec. 3.7.
A negative risk represents any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact
organizational operations (i.e., a threat). The threat could arise from a malicious person with
harmful intent or from an unintended or unavoidable situation (e.g., a natural disaster,
technical failure, or human errors) that may trigger a vulnerability. 24 Numerous threat modeling
techniques are available for analyzing cybersecurity-specific threats. 25 It may be helpful to
consider both a top-down approach (i.e., reviewing critical or sensitive assets for what could
potentially go wrong, regardless of threat source) and a bottom-up approach (i.e., considering
the potential impact of a given set of threat or vulnerability scenarios).
IR 8286A, Sec. 2.2.2 [12] provides a detailed explanation of threat determination. Here are
some examples:
•

Threat enumerations: The Software Engineering Institute’s (SEI) OCTAVE® uses a topdown approach to produce a catalog of potentially harmful outcomes based on the
effects of various threat sources and their motives [20]. Other threat modeling
techniques, such as MITRE’s ATT&CK™ [21], provide a knowledge base of adversarial
tactics and techniques based on real-world observations. There are numerous industry
sources of cybersecurity-specific threat information, including commercial and non-

24 SP 800-30r1 provides information about how to “Identify Threat Sources” and “Identify Threat Events” [15].

25 This section is intended to introduce the topic of cybersecurity threats in the context of the enterprise. IR 8286A further decomposes

cybersecurity threats and threat modeling with practical and actionable guidance related to populating the cybersecurity risk register.

21

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

profit organizations and public-sector sources, like the United States Computer
Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT), Information Sharing and Analysis
Centers/Organizations (ISACs, ISAOs), and Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS) feeds.
•

Gap analysis: Another source of threat information is a high-level risk assessment from
the application of the CSF 2.0 [7] using a gap analysis. Steps 3 and 4 of that framework
describe the consideration of organizational practices and conditions (i.e., a current
state profile), the desired organizational practices (i.e., target state profile), and a
subsequent review of the risk implications of that current state toward the target state.
The analysis can be open-ended by using the target state as an input to red-teaming
exercises, or the analysis can target specific risks (e.g., phishing, distributed denial-ofservice, ransomware).

•

SWOT analysis: One commonly used method that may help organizations identify
potential cybersecurity risk outcomes is a SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities,
threats) analysis. Applying SWOT analysis helps users identify opportunities that arise
from organizational strengths (e.g., a well-respected software development team) and
threats (e.g., supply chain issues) that reflect an organizational weakness. The use of
SWOT analysis helps describe and consider the context in Sec. 3.1, including internal
factors (i.e., strengths and weaknesses internal to the organization), external factors
(i.e., the opportunities and threats presented by the external environment), and ways in
which these factors relate to each other.

•

PESTLE and PMESII-PT: A PESTLE analysis studies the key external factors (Political,
Economic, Sociological, Technological, Legal, and Environmental) that influence an
organization. It can be used in a range of different scenarios and can guide people
professionals and senior managers in strategic decision-making. PMESII-PT stands for
Political, Military, Economic, Social, Information, Infrastructure, Physical Environment,
and Time. Analyzing each of the PMESII-PT variables helps businesses gain insights into
their operating environment in a structured manner. These types of analysis
frameworks can provide additional perspective when conducting threat analysis.

When building a register of potential cybersecurity risks, the organization should consider risk
events that have already occurred in similar organizations. For example, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) has stated, “Given the frequency, magnitude and cost of
cybersecurity incidents, the Commission believes that it is critical that public companies take all
required actions to inform investors about material cybersecurity risks and incidents in a timely
fashion, including those companies that are subject to material cybersecurity risks but may
not yet have been the target of a cyber-attack [emphasis added]” [22].
While it is critical for enterprises to address potential negative impacts on mission and business
objectives, it is equally critical — and required for federal agencies — to plan for success. OMB
states in Circular A-123 that “the profile must identify sources of uncertainty, both positive
(opportunities) and negative (threats)” [3]. Other sources such as the PMBOK Guide 26 offer
similar descriptions of positive and negative risks. However, the notion of “planning for
26 https://www.pmi.org/standards/pmbok

22

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

success” by identifying and realizing positive risks (opportunities) is a relatively new concept in
CSRM that is influencing other risk management disciplines. Covering the concept of positive
risks, the GV.RM-07 Subcategory in the CSF 2.0 states, “Strategic opportunities (i.e., positive
risks) are characterized and included in organizational cybersecurity risk discussions” [7].
Specific implementation examples and informative references 27 for this concept are also
available. Both positive and negative risks currently follow the same processes from
identification to analysis to inclusion on the enterprise risk profile. Whatever means are used to
determine potential threats, it is important to consider them in terms of both the threat actors
(i.e., the instigators of risks with the capability to do harm) acting on the threat sources and the
threat events caused by their actions.
Combinations of multiple risks should also be considered. For example, if one risk in the register
refers to a website outage and another risk refers to an outage of the customer help desk,
there may need to be a third risk in the register that considers the likelihood and impact of an
outage that affects both services at once. It is also important to identify cascading risks, where
one primary risk event may trigger a secondary and even a tertiary event. Analysis of the
likelihood and impact of these first-, second-, and third-order risks is described in Sec. 3.3.
During the threat modeling process, practitioners should identify and mitigate instances of
cognitive bias. Some common issues of bias include:
•

Overconfidence — The tendency for stakeholders to be overly optimistic about risk
scenarios (e.g., unreasonably low likelihood of a threat event, overstated benefits of an
opportunity, exaggerated estimation of the ability to handle a threat)

•

Groupthink — Rendering decisions as a group about potential threat sources and threat
events in a way that discourages creativity or individual responsibility

•

Following trends — Blindly following the latest trend without a detailed analysis of the
specific threats facing the organization

•

Availability bias — The tendency to focus on issues (e.g., threats) that come readily to
mind because one has heard about or read about them, perhaps in ways that do not
accurately represent the actual likelihood of a threat event occurring and resulting in
adverse impact

3.2.3. Determination of Exploitable and Susceptible Conditions
The next key input to risk identification is understanding the potential conditions that enable a
threat event to occur.28 It is important to consider all types of vulnerabilities in all assets,
including people, facilities, and information. For the purposes of this document, a vulnerability
is a condition that enables a threat event to occur. It could be an unpatched software flaw, a
system configuration error, a person who is susceptible to malicious persuasion, or a physical
condition (e.g., a wooden structure being flammable). The presence of a vulnerability does not
cause harm in and of itself, as there needs to be a threat present to exploit it. Moreover, a
27 Direct Informative Reference Download is available at https://csrc.nist.gov/extensions/nudp/services/json/csf/download?olirids=all.
28 SP 800-30r1 provides information about how to “Identify Vulnerabilities and Predisposing Conditions” [15].

23

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

threat that does not have a corresponding vulnerability may not result in a negative risk.
Identifying negative risks includes understanding the potential threats and vulnerabilities to
organizational assets, which can then be used to develop scenarios that describe potential risks.
Automated scanners can quickly identify certain common weaknesses, such as software flaws,
missing patches, misconfigurations, or the presence of malware. However, cybersecurity
weaknesses are not limited to the hardware and software of an enterprise. The SP 800-53
controls highlight the breadth of potential threats that are germane to cybersecurity, such as
those that result from a lack of risk planning associated with continuity of operations (COOP),
training, monitoring physical access, power considerations, and supply chain considerations.
3.2.4. Evaluation of Potential Consequences
The final component of risk identification is documenting the potential consequences of each
risk listed in the register. Many organizations incorrectly express risks that are outside of their
context. For example, a stakeholder might say, “I’m worried about floods,” or “I’m concerned
about a denial-of-service attack.” These examples cannot be analyzed or considered without
additional information. An effective example of an identified risk in the first scenario might be
(as expressed in cause-and-effect terminology), “If a hurricane causes a storm surge, it could
flood the data center and damage multiple critical file servers causing lost revenue due to a
business disruption.”
Cybersecurity risks that cause unexpected or unreliable behavior in a system do not always
result in the complete failure of an information system to fulfill its duty in support of business
objectives. Many elements of a security plan are implemented to support redundancy and
resilience so that a highly likely threat event might result in manageable consequences.
Resilient enterprise systems may be able to continue operating in the face of adverse
circumstances.
By combining the results of Sec. 3.2.1 through 3.2.4, a practitioner can create a set of risk
scenarios (described at the beginning of Sec. 3) in the risk description column of the
cybersecurity risk register, including the source of uncertainty, predisposing conditions,
affected resources, and anticipated result. With this information recorded, risk analysis can
proceed as described in the next step.
3.3. Analyze the Risks
In step 3 of the risk management life cycle, each risk in the cybersecurity risk register is
analyzed to estimate the likelihood that the risk event will occur and the potential impact of the
consequences described.
3.3.1. Risk Analysis Types
Some enterprises use informal risk analysis techniques. However, relying solely on an informal
risk analysis may impair effective CSRM decisions in a modern enterprise. A broad array of risk
analysis methodologies are available to enable more accurate estimation, including SP 800-30
24

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

[15], International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 31010:2019 [23], and The Open Group’s
Open FAIR standards [24].
The following are methods for risk analysis:
•

Quantitative analysis involves numerical values that are assigned to both impact and
likelihood. These values are based on statistical probabilities and a monetized valuation
of loss or gain. The quality of the analysis depends on the accuracy of the assigned
values and the validity of the statistical models used. Consequences may be expressed
in terms of financial, technical, or human impacts. Quantitative analysis may take the
form of financial determinations of impact or exposure. These types of analysis may
provide defensible prioritization and treatment evidence for later analysis by executive
leadership.
To improve the quality of qualitative analysis, values and data can be leveraged from
external sources, such as industry benchmarks or standards, metrics from similar
previous risk scenarios, or findings from inspections and assessments.

•

Semi-quantitative is an approach that is described by SP 800-30r1 as an assessment that
employs “a set of methods, principles, or rules for assessing risk that uses bins, scales, or
representative numbers whose values and meanings are not maintained in other
contexts” [15]. This model helps translate risk analysis into qualitative terms that
support risk communications for decision-makers as well as relative comparisons (e.g.,
within a particular scale or bin).

•

Qualitative analysis is based on the assignment of a descriptor, such as low, medium, or
high. The scale can be formed or adjusted to suit the circumstances, and different
descriptions may be used for different risks. Qualitative analysis is helpful as an initial
assessment or when considering intangible aspects of risk.

Each of these analysis types has advantages and disadvantages, so the type performed should
be consistent with the context associated with the risk. When selecting the most appropriate
type of risk analysis at the system or organization level, practitioners should consider both
consistency with ERM at the enterprise level and the accuracy of measuring cybersecurity risks.
The methods to be selected and under what circumstances depend on many organizational
factors and might be included in the risk management discussions described in Sec. 3.1. While
qualitative methods are commonly used, the practitioner may benefit from considering a
quantitative methodology with a more data-driven approach to estimating likelihood and the
impacts of consequences. Quantitative methods are preferred, given the wide variety of data
available; however, quantitative methods may not always be possible in certain contexts.
Quantitative methods may help to better prioritize risks or prepare more accurate risk exposure
forecasts. However, changing the risk assessment methodology may require time and resources
for development and training. A detailed consideration of risk analysis techniques, including

25

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

worked examples, is provided in the IR 8286 series, and meaningful metrics are discussed in SP
800-55v1 29.
3.3.2. Techniques for Estimating Likelihood and Impact of Consequences
One of the primary goals of CSRM is to identify potential risks that are most likely to have a
significant impact, which requires an accurate analysis of risk with regard to the enterprise’s
risk appetite and system or organizational risk tolerance. IEC 31010 is an international standard
that describes and provides guidance on 17 risk assessment techniques that can be used to
analyze controls, dependencies, and interactions; understand consequence and likelihood; and
measure overall risk [23]. Understanding the likelihood of threat events will also require
experimentation, investigation into previous risk events, and research into the risk experiences
of similar organizations. IR 8286A, Sec. 2.3.2 [12] provides more details and actionable
guidance.
As shown in the notional risk register in Fig. 4, calculating the likelihood of a risk being realized
is a critical step in calculating the risk’s expected impact. Determining likelihood is a contextdriven and often difficult process. Organizations should continually evaluate whether the
methods of likelihood estimation match the context and use case.
Examples of techniques for estimating the probability that a risk event
will occur include:
• Bayesian Analysis — A model that helps inform a statistical
understanding of probability as more evidence or information
becomes available
•

Monte-Carlo — A simulation model that draws on random
sample values from a given set of inputs, performs calculations to
determine results, and iteratively repeats the process to build up
a distribution of the results

•

Event Tree Analysis — A modeling technique that represents a
set of potential events that could arise following an initiating
event from which quantifiable probabilities could be considered
graphically

By way of example, consider a risk scenario in which a critical business server becomes
unavailable to an organization’s financial department. The age of the server, the network on
which it resides, and the reliability of its software all influence the likelihood of a failure.
Additionally, the availability of another server with a fault-tolerant connection could mean that
the loss of the initial server has little consequence. Timing can also impact risk analysis. If the
financial server supports an important payroll function, the impact of a loss occurring shortly
before payday may be significantly higher than if it were to occur after paychecks had already
been distributed. The fact that the server handles financial information may increase the
likelihood of an attack on that server due to its impact to the organization or its value to an
29 https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-55v1

26

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

attacker. Impact may vary greatly depending on whether the server is used to archive legacy
records or perform urgent stock trades. There are many considerations that go into estimating
exposure and the events that can trigger them. Any subfactors that an organization considers
should be clearly delineated and defined to ensure consistency in their use.
Some organizations may want to determine how a given risk may affect multiple aspects of the
enterprise. The calculation of multiple or cascading impacts is an important consideration, and
each permutation should be individually included in the cybersecurity risk register. Secondary
loss events should be captured with primary loss events to represent the total impact and cost
of a risk scenario. The omission of secondary losses in the assessment of a risk scenario would
underestimate the total impact, thereby misinforming risk response selection and prioritization.
For example, while the organization might consider a risk that a telecommunications outage
would result in the loss of availability of a critical web server, there may also be secondary loss
events, including the loss of customers from frustration with unavailable services or penalties
resulting from the failure to meet contractual service levels.
Both tangible (e.g., direct financial losses) and less tangible impacts (e.g., reputational damage
and impairment of mission) should be considered when evaluating the potential consequences
of risk events. These are connected since direct losses will affect reputation, and reputational
risk events will nearly always result in risk response expenses. Note that reputational risk can
have a detrimental effect capable of affecting an enterprise’s ability to carry out its mission
objectives. There is a broad range of stakeholders to be considered when estimating
reputational risk, including workforce, partners, suppliers, regulators, legislators, public
constituents, and clients/customers.
Practitioners should document and track the potential consequences of each cybersecurity risk
that would significantly impact enterprise objectives, such as causing material reputational
damage or significant financial losses to the enterprise. Documenting and tracking these
consequences at the organization or system level provides cybersecurity risk inputs to the ERM
program (see Sec. 3.8).
The estimation of the likelihood and impact of a risk event should account for existing and
planned controls. Planned controls may be those highlighted in a Target State Profile from the
NIST CSF or a system security plan. Controls, whether implemented or planned, should be
analyzed with respect to a cybersecurity risk in the risk register. There may be multiple control
types that exist for each risk (decision support controls, loss event controls, variance
management controls, etc.). These controls can be documented in a risk detail record 30.
The estimated likelihood and impact of each risk are recorded in the appropriate columns in the
cybersecurity risk register. After risk responses are determined, the analysis should be revised
to reflect the mitigation of likelihood and impact for each risk response. The residual risk (i.e.,
the remaining risk after applying risk responses) should then be recorded in the risk register’s
Residual Risk column. To simplify the process of normalizing cybersecurity risk registers when
developing an enterprise risk register (see Sec. 3.8), a consistent time frame should be used for

30 Risk detail records and schemas can be downloaded at https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/ir/8286/final

27

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

estimating the likelihood of each risk. Likewise, the level of impact helps to normalize the risk
during the aggregation and prioritization process.
3.4. Prioritize Risks
After identifying and analyzing applicable risks and recording them in the cybersecurity risk
register, the priorities of those risks should be determined and indicated based on the
likelihood that a threat event will occur and result in an adverse impact.31 IR 8286B [25] covers
this topic in greater detail.
A cybersecurity risk can adversely affect organizational objectives. Based on the analysis
conducted using the processes described in Sec. 3.3, such effects could range from negligible to
severe, so exposure determination is important. Additionally, since organizations have limited
resources, it is helpful to sort the risks within the register in order of importance to prioritize
risk response. In the cybersecurity risk register (CSRR) template in Fig. 4, this result helps
complete the Priority column.32
When completing the Priority column of the CSRR, consider the following:
•

How to combine the calculations of likelihood and impact to determine exposure 33

•

How to determine and measure the potential benefits of pursuing a particular risk
response

•

When to seek additional guidance on how to evaluate risk exposure levels (e.g., while
evaluating exposures that are germane to risk tolerance statements)

Practitioners use both qualitative and quantitative models to calculate and communicate about
exposure. Fig. 5 (derived from Table I-2 of SP 800-30 [7]) demonstrates the use of qualitative
descriptors for likelihood and impact as well as how these might be used to determine an
overall exposure value.

31 Risk identification activities are described in SP 800-30r1, Task 2-6 “Determine Risk” [15] and IR 8286B [25], Sec. 2.2.

32 While risks in the CSRR are assigned a priority to help rank their relative importance, this prioritization is distinct from (but may help inform)
the enterprise-level prioritization performed by senior leaders to create the enterprise risk profile.
33 The formula for calculating risk exposure is the total loss if the risk occurs multiplied by the probability that the risk will happen. Loss is
calculated through a traditional BIA used in conjunction with the risk register model to inform the senior level decision-making process. See SP
800-34 for additional information.

28

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Fig. 5. Likelihood and impact matrix derived

Each risk is evaluated based on its likelihood and impact as determined during risk analysis. The
thresholds for ranges of exposure can be established and published as part of the enterprise
governance model and used by stakeholders to prioritize each risk in the register.
Fig. 6 depicts a quantitative example. A notional organization is showing an approximately 38%
chance of losing $5 million or more each year. This indicates a strong incentive to bolster
cybersecurity risk mitigation.

Fig. 6. Example of a quantitative risk measure: loss exceedance curve

While the risk exposure determination will strongly influence prioritization, other factors may
also influence those decisions, such as enterprise context or stakeholder priorities.
Stakeholders might also use the risk management strategy or other directive to define a
minimum level of exposure to include on the risk register. While cybersecurity risks should not
be arbitrarily omitted from the register, there are likely to be many that represent such a low
exposure that they need not be included. Guidance for this threshold should be applied
consistently throughout the enterprise. For cybersecurity risks that are included and prioritized
in the CSRR, an evaluation should be performed to identify appropriate risk responses.
29

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

3.5. Plan and Execute Risk Response Strategies
The fifth step of the risk management life cycle is to determine the appropriate response to
each risk. While this section summarizes risk response strategies, Sec. 2.3 of IR 8286B [25]
covers the topic in greater detail.
The goal of effective risk management is to identify ways to keep risk aligned with the risk
appetite or tolerance as cost-effectively as possible. In this stage, the practitioner will
determine whether the exposure associated with each risk in the register is within acceptable
levels based on the potential consequences. If not, that practitioner can identify and select
cost-effective risk response options to achieve cybersecurity objectives.
Planning and executing risk responses is an iterative activity and should be based on the risk
strategy guidance described in Sec. 3.1.2. As the risk oversight authorities monitor the success
of those responses, they will provide financial and mission guidance to operational leaders to
inform future risk management activities. In some cases, risk evaluation may lead to a decision
to undertake further analysis to confirm estimates or more closely monitor results, as described
in Sec. 3.6. Risk responses themselves may introduce new risks. For example, adding multifactor authentication to a business system to reduce an access control risk may introduce a new
risk of decreased productivity when users have difficulty using the new technology.
While there is some variance among the terms used by risk management frameworks, there are
four types of actions available (illustrated in Table 2) for responding to negative cybersecurity
risks: accept, transfer, mitigate, and avoid.
Table 2. Response types for negative cybersecurity risks
Type
Accept
Transfer

Mitigate

Avoid

Description
Accept cybersecurity risks within risk tolerance levels. No additional risk response action is needed
except for monitoring.
For cybersecurity risks that fall outside of tolerance levels, reduce them to an acceptable level by
sharing a portion of the consequences with another party (e.g., cybersecurity insurance). While some
of the financial consequences may be transferrable, there are often consequences that cannot be
transferred, like the loss of customer trust.
Apply actions (e.g., security controls discussed in Sec. 3.5.1) that reduce the threats, vulnerabilities,
and impacts of a given risk to an acceptable level. Responses could include those that help prevent a
loss (i.e., reducing the probability of occurrence or the likelihood that a threat event materializes or
succeeds) or that help limit such a loss by decreasing the damage and liability.
Apply responses to ensure that the risk does not occur. Avoiding a risk may be the best option if
there is not a cost-effective method for reducing the cybersecurity risk to an acceptable level. The
cost of the lost opportunity associated with such a decision should be considered as well.

Risk response will often involve creating a risk reserve to avoid or mitigate an identified
negative risk or to realize or enhance an identified positive risk. A risk reserve is similar to other
types of management reserves in that funding or labor hours are set aside and employed if a
risk is triggered to ensure that the opportunity is realized or that the threat is avoided. For
example, the technical skill of subject-matter experts to recover after a cybersecurity attack
may not be available with current staffing resources. A risk reserve can also be used with the

30

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

accept response type to address this (e.g., by setting aside funds during project planning to
employ a qualified third party to augment the internal incident response and recovery effort).
3.5.1. Applying Security Controls to Reduce Risk Exposure
In general, people, processes, and technology combine to provide risk management controls
that can be applied to achieve an acceptable level of risk. Examples of controls include:
•

Preventative: Reduce or eliminate specific instances of a vulnerability

•

Deterrent: Reduce the likelihood of a threat event by dissuading a threat actor

•

Detective: Provide warning of a successful or attempted threat event

•

Corrective: Reduce exposure by offsetting the impact of consequences after a risk event

•

Compensating: Apply one or more controls to adjust for a weakness in another control

Consider an organization that identifies several high-exposure negative cybersecurity risks,
including poor authentication practices (e.g., weak or reused passwords) that could lead to the
disclosure of sensitive customer financial information and to employees of the software
provider gaining unauthorized access and tampering with the financial data. The organization
can apply several deterrent controls and document the applied control identifiers and any
applicable notes in the Risk Register Comments column, including warning banners and the
threat of prosecution for any threat actors who intentionally attempt to gain unauthorized
access. Preventative controls include applying strong identity management policies and using
multi-factor authentication tokens that help reduce authentication vulnerabilities. The software
provider can install detective controls that monitor access logs and alert the organization’s
security operations center if internal staff connect to the customer database without a need for
access. Furthermore, the financial database should be encrypted so that it protects its data if
the file system is exfiltrated.
In many cases, mitigation to bring exposure to negative cybersecurity risks within risk tolerance
levels is accomplished using security controls. For example, if the Risk Executive Function
declares that the organization must avoid risks with likelihood and impact values of High/High
for all costs over $500,000, the Risk Response Type column of the risk register (see Fig. 4) can
be updated with a response type from Table 2. The Risk Response Description column can be
populated with the CSF 2.0 Subcategory outcomes and SP 800-53 control descriptions that
address negative risks. While including a particular informative reference (e.g., security controls
or CSF 2.0 Categories and Subcategories) may be helpful in guiding and describing a risk
response, additional information is likely to be required.
SP 800-53 provides a comprehensive catalog of technical and non-technical (i.e., administrative)
controls that act as “safeguards or countermeasures prescribed for an information system or an
organization to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its
information.” It also describes privacy controls that “are the administrative, technical, and
physical safeguards employed within an agency to ensure compliance with applicable privacy
requirements and manage privacy risks” [5].

31

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

To confirm that the intended mitigation techniques are effective (and cost-effective), the
application of the controls should be evaluated by a competent assessor. Because this example
includes several third-party supply chain partners, that assessment will likely include multiple
parties. SP 800-53A, Assessing Security and Privacy Controls in Information Systems and
Organizations, provides detailed criteria for examining the application of controls and
processes, testing control effectiveness, and conducting interviews to confirm that the
mitigation techniques are likely to achieve their intended result [26].
3.5.2. Responding to Residual Risk
Section 3.2 briefly introduced the concept of residual risk, which is what remains after a risk
response (e.g., those listed in Table 2) has been applied. The residual risk can be calculated
using the same methods for calculating current risk, as discussed in Sec. 3.3. If the residual risk
is beyond the acceptable level of risk, then the risk owner should evaluate whether the risk can
be brought to an acceptable level (e.g., by applying additional security controls). If a risk
response exceeds the benefit of the activity at risk, the risk owner may wish to explore ways to
avoid the risk altogether.
Upon approval of the risk response for each risk description and the determination of one or
more accountable risk owners, the risk register is updated to reflect that information.
Enterprise risk officers document residual risks on the enterprise risk profile and analyze those
risks against applicable enterprise risk appetite and tolerance levels set by senior leadership.
They then determine whether any additional risk response plans or actions are needed.
Enterprise risk officers must communicate these proposed plans and actions to the enterprise’s
senior management to make the final decisions and then communicate those decisions
appropriately and in a timely way to risk owners at lower levels, such as organization or system
levels. Organizations are encouraged to quantify risk in financial terms wherever feasible to
support defensible prioritization and treatment decisions.
Federal agencies are required to develop a risk register-like report
called a plan of actions and milestones (POA&M) for each system. The
document is an output of the Assess step described in SP 800-37r2 and
documents planned risk mitigation actions, including those that cannot
be immediately implemented (e.g., due to operational requirements or
resource unavailability). A POA&M “identifies tasks needing to be
accomplished. It details resources required to accomplish the elements
of the plan, any milestones in meeting the tasks, and scheduled
completion dates for the milestones.” It also “describes the measures
planned to correct deficiencies identified in the controls […] and to
address known vulnerabilities or security and privacy risks. The content
and structure of plans of action and milestones are informed by the risk
management strategy developed as part of the risk executive
(function)…” [16]

32

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

3.5.3. When a Risk Event Passes Without Triggering the Event
Risk responses will often be adjusted as opportunities and threats evolve. This is similar to the
project management concept of the “cone of uncertainty” in that understanding about an
identified risk will grow over time. For changes in identified risk, one mitigation technique is the
use of risk reserves, as introduced in Sec. 3.5. For this risk response, it is important that the risk
owners collaborate with the acquisition or procurement teams and budget owners. With
appropriate budget planning, risk reserves can be released for other predetermined funding
requirements after the risk has been reduced to an acceptable level or the time for the risk to
occur has passed.
While many industry-based enterprises can return unused funds to shareholders or pay down
corporate debt, unused reserves are more difficult for government agencies to use without
preplanning. Most government procurement cycles are rigidly based on the government fiscal
year. Identified opportunities can be “planned for” in government procurement cycles as
“optional” tasking or purchases. For example, unused funds could be used to accelerate the IT
refresh cycle to address cybersecurity risks (e.g., CPU vulnerabilities that resulted in
performance losses when patched). If the current fiscal year only allows for the purchase of half
of the required materials, an option can be included at the time of the base contract award for
the other half of the materials but not funded at the time of the based contract award. When
the practitioner liberates the risk reserve after the chance of the negative risk occurring has
passed, the funding can be used to exercise the already awarded option that lacked the initial
funding when the base contract was awarded. Exercising an option in government contracting
is trivial (often 30 days or less) when compared to the long lead time for initial contract
procurements. See the “Integrate and Align Cybersecurity and Acquisition Processes” section of
IR 8170 [4] for more information on preplanning for government agencies.
Discussing Target Profiles, Section 3.1 of the CSF 2.0 states, “A Target Profile considers
anticipated changes to the organization’s cybersecurity posture, such as new requirements,
new technology adoption, and threat intelligence trends” [7]. If an organization used the CSF
2.0 to create a list of products or services for addressing identified risks, the risk reserve can be
used to acquire these predetermined risk mitigation solutions. Once a product or service is
purchased, the Target Profile can also be used to track and address residual cybersecurity risk
using the risk register.
3.6. Monitor, Evaluate, and Adjust
Step 6 in Fig. 2 (Monitor, Evaluate, and Adjust) focuses on managing cybersecurity risks to
support mission and business objectives. IR 8286C [17], Sec. 5 provides greater detail on the
subject.
By protecting the value provided by enterprise information and technology, CSRM requires the
continual balancing of benefits, resources, and risk considerations. As an input to ERM, CSRM
requires a dynamic and collaborative process to maintain that balance by continually
monitoring risk parameters, evaluating their relevance to organizational objectives, and
responding accordingly when necessary (e.g., by adjusting controls). The risk register provides a
33

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

formal communication vehicle for sharing and collaborating on cybersecurity risk activities as
an input to ERM decision-makers.
Ongoing dialogue is needed among all relevant stakeholders, including the initial agreement
and understanding of internal/external context and the discussion, determination, and
implementation of risk responses. While such discussions often occur within a given business
unit or subordinate organization, the enterprise will benefit from broader, frequent, and
transparent communication regarding risk options, decisions, changes, and adjustments to
improve the quality of information used in enterprise-level decisions. The evolving
cybersecurity risk registers and profiles provide a formal method for communicating
institutional knowledge and decisions regarding cybersecurity risks and their contributions to
ERM.
3.6.1. Continuous Risk Monitoring
Because cybersecurity risks and their impacts on other risks frequently change, enterprise risk
conditions should be continually monitored to ensure that they remain within acceptable
levels. 34 For example, such monitoring could determine when negative cybersecurity risks for a
system are approaching the risk tolerance level, triggering a review of the risk that could result
in a higher priority for the risk and the implementation of additional risk responses. Risk
monitoring benefits from a positive risk-aware culture within the enterprise. Such a culture
leads to a cohesive, team-based approach to monitoring and managing risks. Proactive
activities, including the examples listed in Table 3, support that kind of culture.
Table 3. Examples of proactive risk management activities
Activity Example
Cultural Risk
Awareness
Risk Response
Training
Risk Management
Performance
Risk Response
Preparedness
Risk Management
Governance
Risk Transparency

Description
Encourage employees to look for cybersecurity risk issues before they become
significant.
Train employees and partners on enterprise strategy, risk appetite, and selected risk
responses.
Discuss the impact of cybersecurity risk on every employee and partner and why
effectively managing risks is an important part of everyone’s job.
Conduct exercises to provide practical and meaningful experience in recognizing,
reporting, and responding to cybersecurity risk scenarios.
Remind staff of organizational policies and procedures that are established to help
improve risk awareness and response.
Foster an environment in which employees and partners may openly and proactively
report potential risk situations without fear of reprisal.

Each risk in the register is assigned a risk owner, as described in Table 1. The risk owner is
accountable for applying the priority (described in Sec. 3.4) to select and assign appropriate risk
responses while considering business objectives and performance targets. ERM leadership (e.g.,
the Risk Executive Function described in SP 800-39) should ensure that accountability. There
may be a distinction between responsibility and accountability for risk ownership. For example,
34 Continuous monitoring is described in detail in several NIST publications including SP 800-30, SP 800-37, SP 800-39, SP 800-137, IR 8286C, and
the IR 8011 series. These and other publications are available at https://csrc.nist.gov.

34

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

in a federal agency, responsibility for information system risks might be assigned to a System
Owner, but accountability might be assigned to an Authorizing Official. It is not the intent of this
report to prescribe an approach but to remind the reader that enterprise risk strategy should
clearly describe the roles that will be responsible and accountable for risk decisions at each
organizational level.
ERM programs, policies, and processes should specify the frequency and methods for
monitoring, evaluating the effectiveness of, and adjusting risk responses. They should also
define the approved governance bodies to discuss, approve, and communicate the most
significant risks and their plans.
If the risk response for a given risk (or set of risks) requires a funding or schedule consideration,
specific monitoring and measurement milestones can be included in the associated risk
response plan. The risk owner can then identify performance measures or trends (e.g.,
deliverable artifacts or software development achievements) that represent milestones in
addressing the risk. Achieving those milestones may trigger the release or repurposing of
associated management reserve resources. This process can be especially helpful in enterprises
that manage funding by periodic increments, such as fiscal years. In such an enterprise, it can
be beneficial for the monitoring process to identify that a given risk is unlikely to occur, allowing
the risk owner sufficient time to reallocate those reserves before other funding deadlines.
Based on ongoing cost-benefit analysis, the enterprise should continually monitor the risk
register, including those risks that were accepted as residual risk. By continually refreshing the
risk register and risk profile artifacts described in this report, monitoring and adjustment will be
straightforward. It is important to communicate and benefit from the lessons learned from
previous practice and actual risk events. By examining adverse events and losses from the past
and reviewing missed opportunities (including those missed due to a risk-averse mindset), an
enterprise can improve its risk management model and organizational outcomes.
As part of the continuous monitoring process, the archival of risks should be considered. If a risk
is no longer germane to the enterprise, it may be prudent to archive this risk. Enterprises
should consider an annual review of risks to archive risks. Similarly, enterprises should evaluate
risk archives for re-emerging risks. These reviews may include demonstration through
documentation (including quantitative support, where possible) that a risk has been overcome
by events, modified due to a change in organizational direction, or effectively resolved through
mitigation demonstrated over time, with data that provides comfort and certainty to
leadership. This is important to ensure that the risk does not emerge again soon after archiving.
Many organizations employ automated processes and software to support continuous risk
monitoring35. NIST and its National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE) have developed
extensive guidance regarding the technical mechanisms that are available to perform and
assess information security continuous monitoring (ISCM) [27]. For ISCM to provide meaningful
input into ERM processes, the ISCM must be designed and operated in light of the ERM strategy
described above. In this way, the risk dashboard and associated reports provide a visual
35 Examples of these systems are Cyber Risk Management Systems (CRMS) or Cyber Risk Quantification Systems (CQRS). Some enterprises have
found value in implementing these systems.

35

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

representation of the information in the risk register. Examples of systems that use such a
dashboard include the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Continuous Diagnostics and
Mitigation (CDM) system and the Department of Defense (DoD) Enterprise Mission Assurance
Support Service (eMASS).
3.6.2. Key Risk Indicators and Key Performance Indicators
Risk tolerance is addressed through the application of various risk responses, including security
controls. Even when risks are identified and marked as accepted, they need to be measured to
ensure that they remain within established risk tolerance parameters. Measuring the
performance of those controls through key performance indicators (KPIs), especially metrics
that represent key risk indicators (KRIs), enables the oversight and management of risk
tolerance. Section 5 of IR 8286C [17] discusses KPIs and KRIs in detail, including examples.
KRIs should be defined regarding the given risk exposures that have been identified in the
previous sections. Executives should ensure that risk appetite statements focus on ensuring the
success of mission and business objectives. For example, if a federal agency has a strategic
objective to ensure the protection of user data, the agency’s risk appetite statement might be,
“Ensure that only authorized parties have access to federal systems.” Therefore, a
corresponding risk tolerance statement might be, “We will issue unique user accounts, and our
computer systems will audit both positive and negative logon events.” The agency can deploy
an audit control to determine whether a breach occurred. However, that audit control looks
backward and does not support a plan to thwart the attack. The agency could employ KRIs that
provide a leading metric (e.g., detection of increasing external reconnaissance scanning activity)
that might indicate an impending attack. Other indicators might be to data-mine captured
network data for information that might indicate that an adversary is preparing to move its
payload into the enterprise to exfiltrate data. Similarly, an organization might assess download
times, network traffic surges, account auditing, or statistical deviations from normal user
behavior. This second set of indicators is actionable because they provide leading metrics to
proactively address risks in contrast to audit-based findings.
Cybersecurity KRIs can be positive, such as the number of critical business systems that include
strong authentication protections. They also can be negative, such as the number of severe
customer disruptions in the last 90 days. Additional measures may include compliance
measures, performance targets for positive risk, and objectives for balancing risk and reward.
Based on the monitoring and reporting of KRIs and KPIs, the enterprise and subordinate levels
need to identify and provide processes for reassessing risk. Changes in the risk landscape,
including those from modifications in industry regulation, may require a periodic review of risk
appetite, tolerance, KPIs, and KRIs.
3.6.3. Continuous Improvement
A risk-aware culture should actively look for opportunities to improve, reinforce effective
practices, and adjust to correct deficiencies. While all should be responsible and held
accountable for any negligent activity, there is value in fostering a community that pursues
36

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

opportunities within risk appetite levels while also being prepared for and continually thwarting
threat actors that would exploit vulnerabilities.
The Plan-Do-Check-Act (i.e., The Deming Cycle) is a well-known model for achieving the ongoing
effectiveness of any process, and it applies well to CSRM. Earlier in Sec. 3, this report described
methods for the Plan and Do elements — essentially, planning based on enterprise direction
and carrying out activities to achieve an acceptable level of cybersecurity risk. Section 3.6.1
describes the Check element, where the practitioner determines whether the intended
activities accomplished objectives and to what extent. The remaining element, Act, helps
determine what should be done next to adjust and improve.
An element of adjustment relates to learning from open and transparent feedback throughout
ERM communications processes. Fig. 2 points out that communication takes place throughout
the risk management life cycle — including risk direction, the identification of threats and
opportunities, the analysis of resulting exposure, and the implementation of responses — and
that the risk register is the vehicle for all of those communications. Each of these activities
provides a chance for feedback and documenting lessons learned to drive subsequent
improvement. Practitioners can adjust risk management processes for emerging and evolving
threats and opportunities by staying aware of changes to the risk landscape, such as through
subscriptions to community alerts (e.g., InfraGard, US-CERT, commercial threat feeds), industry
and public-sector workshops, and publications (e.g., NIST publications and postings).
As risk register and profile information is collected and aggregated (described in detail in Sec.
4), leaders can provide feedback to improve processes and adjust risk criteria. For example, if a
new online service provides an opportunity to innovate, leadership may direct the organization
to take a little more risk and potentially improve revenues. Alternatively, if other business units
have suffered some cybersecurity attacks, stakeholders may reevaluate the likelihood and
impact criteria. In either case, the ability to adjust the effective management of cybersecurity
risk supports broad enterprise objectives as part of ERM.
3.7. Considerations of Positive Risks as an Input to ERM
Planning for success is equally as important as avoiding disasters. As mentioned in Sec. 3.2.2,
the ERM profile should identify sources of uncertainty, both positive (opportunities) and
negative threats. In the CSRM discipline, a significant portion of risk information is collected and
reported with regard to weaknesses and threats that could result in negative consequences.
However, positive risks (opportunities) also inform decisions by senior leaders for setting the
risk appetite and tolerance of the enterprise. For example, conducting a SWOT analysis that
considers strengths and weaknesses as well as threats and opportunities may be a useful
exercise.
Consider, for example, an organization that is evaluating moving a major financial system from
an in-house data center to a commercial hosting provider. If the organization maintains vast
amounts of land and warehouses, the move could be considered a strength of the organization,
and they might increase revenue by offering space to a commercial vendor to host both their
own and other organizations’ data centers. The Federal Government has realized many

37

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

opportunities of this nature, including consolidating payroll functions under the National
Finance Center (NFC) and consolidating reporting requirements in the Department of Justice
Cyber Security Assessment and Management (CSAM) application.
Section 3.2.2 describes the need to treat threat actors and threat sources as inputs into an
estimation of risk. If the enterprise chooses to include positive risk scenarios in the register,
then the process should similarly consider sources of opportunity that might provide benefits. A
consideration of both threats and opportunities may enable discussions regarding the benefits
and risks of a particular endeavor. Alternatively, the organization could manage an opportunity
risk register separately from the traditional threat-based risk register, since positive risks (i.e.,
opportunities) often have to be assessed on a slightly different scale.
In addition to the threat modeling examples above, methods for identifying cybersecurityspecific opportunities are also available and could be as simple as an employee suggestion box.
Industry publications, such as those from commercial industry associations and agencies like
NIST, regularly provide information and ideas regarding potential innovations or advances that
may represent cybersecurity opportunities.
Numerous formal methods are available for identifying opportunities,
including:
• Brainstorming — A group innovation technique, often led by a
facilitator, that asks participants to identify and describe
opportunities
• Delphi — A procedure to gain consensus from a group of subjectmatter experts using one or more individual questionnaires that are
then collected and collated to identify opportunities to be pursued
• Ideation — A consistent process of observing an environment,
discerning opportunities for improvement, experimenting with
possible resolutions, and developing innovative solutions
The same formal methods can be used to determine other inputs, such as
those described in Sec. 3.2.3 and Sec. 3.2.4.
With regard to positive risk response, consider the previous example of an organization that
has identified the positive risk of increasing revenue by providing physical space for a
commercial vendor to offer an outsourcing service. Analysis of the risk has determined that the
opportunity would be highly beneficial to the enterprise. The solution also provides a moderate
opportunity to improve availability because of the colocation. The Risk Response Type column
of the risk register should also be updated using a response type from Table 4, the comment
field updated to contain information that is pertinent to the opportunity, and the residual risk
uncertainty of not realizing the opportunity calculated, as discussed in Sec. 3.5.2.
With these controls and methods in place and assessed as effective, the remaining risks can be
analyzed to determine the residual impact, likelihood, and exposure, as described in Sec. 3.3. If

38

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

the residual exposure falls within risk tolerance levels, then stakeholders can proceed in gaining
the benefits of the opportunity. Each of these values is added to the risk register for enterprise
reporting and monitoring.
Where positive risks are to be considered and included in risk registers, there are four generally
used response types, as shown in Table 4.
Table 4. Response types for positive cybersecurity risks
Type
Realize
Share
Enhance
Accept

Description
Eliminate uncertainty to make sure the opportunity is actualized (sometimes referenced as
“exploit”).
Allocate ownership to another party that is better able to capture the opportunity.
Increase the probability and positive impact of an opportunity (e.g., invest in or participate with a
promising cybersecurity technology).
Take advantage of an opportunity if it happens to present itself (e.g., hire key staff, embrace new
cybersecurity technology).

As with negative risks, positive entries in the cybersecurity risk registers may be normalized and
aggregated into the enterprise-level risk register.
3.8. Creating and Maintaining an Enterprise-Level Cybersecurity Risk Register
A key outcome of the risk identification and communications elements is the ability to create an
enterprise cybersecurity risk register as input to the broader enterprise risk register (Sec. 3.9).
As described throughout Sec. 3, applying a consistent risk register with agreed-upon criteria and
categories enables various data points to be normalized, aggregated, and sorted into an
enterprise view. While this section highlights the aggregation, normalization, analysis, and
prioritization of CSRRs, Sec. 2 of IR 8286C [17] provides greater detail on the topic. This
document presents the CSRR as a table and in automated formats (i.e., JSON formats), since
many organizations maintain formal and automated applications that provide detailed tracking
and reporting (e.g., a GRC product).
A component of ERM is information and communications technology risk management
(ICTRM), which is a category of technological risks that may face an enterprise (e.g.,
cybersecurity, privacy, and supply chain). ERM and ICTRM have several points of integration.
First, enterprise governance activities for ERM direct the strategy and methods for ICTRM and
other risk management disciplines to use. Based on this guidance, each discipline within each
organization uses risk registers to document its risks. In the case of ICTRM, risks are derived
from system-level assessments. Next, these risk registers are aggregated, normalized, analyzed,
and used to create enterprise-level risk registers for each discipline. These, in turn, become part
of a broader enterprise risk register that encompasses all disciplines. Therefore, ICT risks are
managed in parallel and then brought together for evaluation in the ERR. SP 800-221A [8]
provides greater detail on the ICTRM process.
As shown in Fig. 1, risk registers from all ICT risks — including cybersecurity — are composed
and maintained at the enterprise (including higher-level and lower-level enterprises),

39

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

organizational (including suborganizations and business units), and system levels. 36 Each level
of the enterprise has a unique set of cybersecurity risks that must be included when considering
enterprise risk. Integrating the contents of lower level CSRRs into higher level registers allows
for the effective transfer of risk information from CSRM to ERM in formats and terms that are
familiar to senior leaders. This flow of information is illustrated in Fig. 7.

Fig. 7. Integration of CSRRs into enterprise risk profile

As the risk registers from each system and organization are completed, they are provided to the
designated risk officers at the relevant level (i.e., system or organization) and shared with
senior management to conduct the following actions:
1. Aggregate risks in similar categories into a concise view. This process can be timeintensive if executed manually using spreadsheets. Using automation is recommended
for efficiency and to reduce errors due to manual processing (see IR 8286C [17]).
2. Normalize risks to ensure that definitions and values as recorded by various enterprise
entities are consistent (see IR 8286C [17]).

36 OMB Circular A-130 defines an information system as “a discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing,
maintenance, use, sharing, dissemination, or disposition of information” [6].

40

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

3. Analyze risks to determine their relevance at the current risk register level (see IR 8286C
[17]).
4. Prioritize risks based on whether they need to be promoted to the next level (see IR
8286C [17] and IR 8286B [25]).
5. Optimize risks to meet risk tolerance and operational targets (see IR 8286B [25]).
Enterprise risk officers collect all risk inputs — including the CSRRs — and analyze potential risk
events, consequences, and impacts at the enterprise level to create the ERR. The aggregated
and prioritized ERR is the ERP that enables key executive stakeholders to stay aware of critical
risks, including those that are related to cybersecurity. For some organizations, this information
will need to be provided to senior managers who have a fiduciary duty to remain aware of and
help manage risks (discussed in Sec. 4). In this way, enterprise leaders will have the necessary
information and opportunity to consider cybersecurity exposure as factors for budgets or
corporate balance sheet reporting. Section 3 of IR 8286C provides greater detail on the
integration of cybersecurity risk into the ERR/ERP.
Private-sector and public-sector enterprises will benefit from the use of this risk register
integration process. Prioritization is supported by one of COSO’s key principles: “The
organization prioritizes risks as a basis for selecting responses to risks” [10]. Prioritization helps
managers evaluate the costs and benefits of allocating resources to mitigate one risk compared
to another.
As part of the risk guidance, enterprise leaders will designate ERM process participants and the
responsibilities of each role. That guidance should declare the role responsible for creating and
maintaining the enterprise risk register, the frequency with which the register will be updated,
and how the risks within the register will be communicated to various stakeholders. This report
will consider that role to be assigned to the enterprise risk officer, although the responsibility
could fall upon any designated party, as described in Sec. 3.1.1.
The creation and maintenance of the enterprise risk register also supports a periodic review of
the enterprise risk guidance, including risk definitions, context, and risk appetite criteria. It
provides an opportunity to review and validate enterprise definitions for risks, risk categories,
and risk assessment scales. If any changes or updates to the risk context or guidance need to
occur, the enterprise risk officer (or equivalent) likely has sufficient seniority to ensure
appropriate updates to those enterprise processes. Cybersecurity executives should consider
any positive cybersecurity risks that are present in the rolled-up report and add other
opportunities as inputs to the enterprise risk register.
3.9. Cybersecurity Risk Data Conditioned for Enterprise Risk Roll-Up
To support the subsequent aggregation of various risk registers, enterprise risk guidance should
identify the enterprise objectives to which various types of cybersecurity risk should be aligned.
Section 4 of this report describes an enterprise risk profile that reflects risks that may impact
four discrete enterprise objectives: strategic, operations, reporting, and compliance [1]. These
same four objectives were key factors in the original COSO ERM framework and are often used

41

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

as guideposts for enterprise risk reporting. Clear direction from senior leaders about how to
align various types of cybersecurity risk with enterprise objectives will help enable subsequent
aggregation, normalization, and prioritization.
Objective categories include:
•

Strategic: Risks related to the implementation of a new service offering; cybersecurity
issues that might impact an upcoming federal agency merger or private-sector
acquisition

•

Operations: Cybersecurity issues regarding existing operational systems, such as a
ransomware attack that disables a manufacturing line; business continuity/disaster
recovery issues

•

Reporting: Cybersecurity risks regarding the availability, integrity, and confidentiality of
accounting or other financial management systems

•

Compliance: Cybersecurity risks, where a negative event might result in a failure to
meet a contractual service agreement or in a regulatory penalty or fine

If the cybersecurity risk register employed SP 800-53 families as its organizing principle for
categories, a predetermined mapping between the family and one of the four enterprise
objectives could streamline the process. Direction may be needed regarding how to account for
risks that cross multiple boundaries and how each organizational level should perform an
aggregation of subordinate risk registers.
Appendix E provides a notional enterprise risk register that combines both federal agency and
critical infrastructure risks to illustrate the integration of various cybersecurity risks alongside
other key enterprise risks. Table 5 provides an excerpt from the larger Appendix D table to
illustrate a notional example of each of the enterprise risk register’s fields.
Table 5. Excerpt from a notional enterprise risk register
Register Element
ID (Risk Identifier)
Priority
Risk Description
Risk Category
Current Assessment — Financial Impact
Current Assessment — Reputation Impact
Current Assessment — Mission Impact
Current Assessment — Likelihood
Current Assessment — Exposure Rating
Risk Response
Risk Owner
Status

Notional Example
1
5
Retiring staff lead to personnel shortages
Operational Risk
OpEx M
CapEx L
L
M
M
M
• Improve hiring diversity
• Improve employee benefits packages per recent survey and
discussions
Dwayne Rhodes (Human Resources Department)
Open

Table 6 describes each of the elements in the example enterprise risk register.
42

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management
Table 6. Descriptions of the notional enterprise risk register elements

Register Element
ID (Risk Identifier)
Priority

Risk Description
Risk Category
Current
Assessment —
Financial Impact

Current
Assessment —
Reputation
Impact
Current
Assessment —
Mission Impact
Current
Assessment —
Likelihood
Current
Assessment —
Exposure Rating
Risk Response
Risk Owner
Status

Description
A sequential numeric identifier for referring to a risk in the risk register (e.g., 1, 2, 3).
A relative indicator of the criticality of this entry in the risk register, either expressed in
ordinal value (e.g., 1, 2, 3) or in reference to a given scale (e.g., high, moderate, low). This
prioritization may differ from similar risks in individual risk profiles from subordinate
organizations.
A brief explanation of the cybersecurity risk scenario impacting the enterprise.
An organizing construct that helps to evaluate similar types of risk at the enterprise level
and to consolidate and normalize information from subordinate risk registers.
Organizations draw from many available taxonomies of risk categories.
An analysis of the potential financial benefits or consequences resulting from this scenario,
including cost considerations from the CSRRs. While this element could be quantitative, it
is often qualitative (e.g., high, moderate, low) at the enterprise level. Financial
considerations may be expressed as (1) capital expenditures (CapEx) that represent a
longer-term business expense (e.g., property, facilities, equipment) and (2) operating
expenses (OpEx) that support day-to-day operations. For an example of a risk register using
quantitative values, see Figure 18 of NIST IR 8286Ar1.
An analysis of the potential benefits or consequences that the scenario might have on the
stature, credibility, or effectiveness of the enterprise. Some enterprises perform a formal
sentiment analysis using commercial services or other technical tools to support
assessment.
An analysis of the potential benefits or consequences that the scenario might have on the
ability of the enterprise to successfully achieve mission objectives.
An estimation of the probability, before any risk response, that this scenario will occur. This
considers the effectiveness of current key controls.
A calculation of the likely risk exposure based on the inherent likelihood estimate of
probability and the determined mission, financial, and reputational benefits or
consequences of the risk.
A brief prose description of the selected risk response strategy.
The designated party responsible and accountable for ensuring that the risk is maintained
in accordance with enterprise requirements. The risk owner may work with a designated
risk manager who is responsible for managing and monitoring the selected risk response.
A field for tracking the current condition of this risk and any next steps.

There is value in both a single point of reference (i.e., the register) and detailed risk information
(i.e., the risk detail report). The risk register provides an easily consumed summary for
understanding the risk landscape, while the detailed version provides additional information.
The risk detail report also enables additional information, such as historical information,
detailed risk analysis data, and information about individual and organizational accountability.
Additional information to include in an enterprise risk detail report might include:
•

Detailed risk information (e.g., full risk statement, detailed scenario description, KRIs,
enterprise status for this particular risk)

•

Information regarding various risk roles (e.g., risk owner, risk manager, risk approver)
and affected stakeholders

43

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

•

Historical timeline information (e.g., last update date, next expected review)

•

Risk analysis information, including an aggregate understanding of threats,
vulnerabilities, resources affected, and impact

•

Detailed risk response information (e.g., responses implemented, status and results of
previous responses, additional responses planned)

The enterprise risk register provides input for those performing enterprise risk oversight, such
as an executive risk committee. The register acts as an informative gauge that can be used to
stay aware of various risks, including those related to cybersecurity. By tracking the status of
each risk, including their exposure values, enterprise stakeholders can identify the most
relevant risks (e.g., a top 10 list that may be used to further inform enterprise risk decisions).
Summary reports about the highest priority risks may be used to inform stakeholders (e.g., for
federal departments and agencies, those in an oversight role, such as Congress, OMB, or
Government Accountability Office) about existing risks, risk responses, and planned activities.
Since it is difficult to compare dissimilar risk exposures (e.g., employee retention, disaster
recovery), risks are often translated into financial impact and may be further broken down into
direct costs (i.e., the impact of a given risk on the capital budget and operating expenses), the
financial cost of reputational damage, and the direct financial implications of impact on the
enterprise mission. Careful planning as to how dissimilar risks will be evaluated is
recommended to streamline the roll-up processes. The relative financial impact of each type of
risk can provide further input into risk management prioritization and monitoring decisions for
enterprise risk managers. Reputation exposure can be similarly determined in the enterprise
risk register (e.g., by the CRO) by combining high-impact attacks, the enterprise sector, and
consequences with a histogram (trend) analysis of stakeholder sentiment for each stakeholder
type. This last action of prioritization creates the enterprise risk profile, as discussed in Sec. 4.

44

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

4. Cybersecurity Risk Management as Part of a Portfolio View
The objective of ERM deliberations and related decisions is to provide timely resource
allocation and mission guidance to enterprises and to prepare prudent risk position disclosures
to appropriate stakeholders. A portfolio view of risk provides insight into all areas of risk
exposure, thereby reducing the chances of an enterprise facing undesirable outcomes. This
portfolio view is valuable to all enterprises, public and private. While many ERM processes are
written from a commercial perspective, agency “enterprises” operate differently but
experience similar financial and reputation risk impacts. Likewise, federal ERM best practices
and guidelines are similar to those of commercial practices.
Federal agencies regularly report the risk status and progress of agency information security
programs, such as through management reports to DHS, OMB, and Congress. Similarly, U.S.
publicly traded companies typically disclose information security to the SEC in Section 1.A. Risk
Factors of Form 10-Q/K filings. At this level of reporting, information security would be
considered an enterprise risk statement. Information security can be dissected into
intermediate risk statements, such as electronic information security and physical information
security. Each of these intermediate risk statements can be further broken down into individual
risk register statements as detail is required.
To make resource and guidance decisions commensurate with enterprise risk, ERM officials
require subordinate organizations’ risk registers and profiles to be normalized and aggregated
into an enterprise risk register. ERM officials then prioritize the risks on the enterprise risk
register in the context of achieving the enterprise objectives (i.e., strategic, operations,
reporting, and compliance) to develop an enterprise risk profile (described in Sec. 4.1). NIST
often references a strategic view at the enterprise level, supported by business units that
implement that strategy and are in turn supported by information and systems that enable the
tactical implementation of enterprise objectives. That view is illustrated by the Information and
Decision Flows diagram from Section 5 of the CSF 2.0 [7]. 37
Cybersecurity risk inputs are not intended to address all of the risks that may affect enterprise
objectives. However, considering cybersecurity risks with regard to the enterprise’s objectives
supports decisions by enterprise leadership. Normalizing and aggregating the risk register
supports a holistic understanding of risk response and provides a way to inform enterprise risk
managers about the portfolio view of various risks throughout the enterprise.
4.1. Applying the Enterprise Risk Register and Developing the Enterprise Risk Profile
As risk information is transmitted up from lower levels of the organization, each level’s risk
register contains pertinent information to create a prioritized risk profile for the level
immediately above it. Subordinate organizations’ impacts may be different, similar, conflicting,
overlapping, or unavailable and must be properly combined by financial and mission analysis at
the level immediately above the reporting organization.
37 Adopting and using cybersecurity risk registers is the quickest way for an enterprise to progress from Cybersecurity Framework Tier 1: Partial
to Tier 4: Adaptive.

45

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

The enterprise risk profile is a subset of carefully selected risks from the larger enterprise risk
register. It reflects assessments of mission, financial, and reputation exposures that are
organized according to the four enterprise objectives.
While the impacts of cybersecurity risk on various assets may be determined at lower levels,
the overall cash flow and capital implications of all of the risks can only be normalized,
aggregated, and recorded in the enterprise risk register by enterprise fiduciaries (e.g., CFOs).
Similarly, enterprise mission impacts must be aggregated and expressed by the senior
executives who are most directly accountable to stakeholders.
The enterprise risk register informs the enterprise risk profile once the risks are prioritized at
the highest level of the risk management function in the enterprise, as depicted in Table 7. 38
Table 7. Illustrative example of a risk profile (derived from [3])

Risk

Agency X
may fail to
achieve
program
targets due
to a lack of
capacity at
program
partners

Enterprise
Objective

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVE –
Improve
Program
Outcomes

Contract and
grant fraud

OPERATIONS
OBJECTIVE –
Manage the
Risk of Fraud
in Federal
Operations

Agency X
identified
material
weaknesses
in internal
control

REPORTING
OBJECTIVE –
Provide
Reliable
External
Financial
Reporting

Program X is
highly
susceptible
to significant
improper
payments

COMPLIANCE
OBJECTIVE –
Comply With
the Improper
Payments
Legislation

Current
Impact

High

High

High

High

Current
Likelihood

Current Risk
Response

High

REDUCTION:
Agency X has
developed a
program to
provide program
partners with
technical
assistance

Medium

High

High

Residual
Impact

REDUCTION:
Agency X has
developed
procedures to
ensure that
contract
performance is
monitored and
that proper checks
and balances are
in place
REDUCTION:
Agency X has
developed
corrective actions
to provide
program partners
with technical
assistance
REDUCTION:
Agency X has
developed
corrective actions
to ensure that
improper payment
rates are
monitored and
reduced

High

High

High

High

Residual
Likelihood

Proposed Risk
Response

Owner

Proposed
Risk
Response
Category

Medium

Agency X will
monitor the
capacity of
program
partners
through
quarterly
reporting from
partners

Primary –
Program
Office

Primary –
Strategic
Review

Medium

Agency X will
provide
training on
fraud
awareness,
identification,
prevention,
and reporting

Primary –
Contracting
or Grants
Officer

Primary –
Internal
Control
Assessment

Medium

Agency X will
monitor
corrective
actions in
consultation
with OMB to
maintain audit
opinion

Primary –
Chief
Financial
Officer

Primary –
Internal
Control
Assessment

Medium

Agency X will
develop
budget
proposals to
strengthen
program
integrity

Primary –
Program
Office

Primary –
Internal
Control
Assessment
and
Strategic
Review

They may be full-value exposures or modified (and so noted) by the likelihood assessments of
enterprise leaders. At the top enterprise level, ERM officials have the prerogative to add their
38 For the purposes of this example, “REDUCTION” is interpreted as the IR 8286 “mitigate” risk response type.

46

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

own judgment of likelihood and impact as part of the normalization process, along with other
members of the enterprise Risk Executive Function. While the ERM process helps drive the
discussion and calculation of likely risk scenarios, recent natural disasters have demonstrated
that actual consequences can far exceed initial loss expectations. Enterprise executives should
continually observe industry trends and actual occurrences to readjust likelihood and impact
estimations and reserves based on the changing risk landscape. Enterprise risk profiles should
also reflect comparable occurrence incidents and trends for the subject enterprise and peer
organizations.
The enterprise risk profile supports the governance and management of risk in several ways:
•

Financial impact — Various risk scenarios are converted into actual capital and
operational expenses, enabling executive leaders to conduct a fiscally responsible costbenefit analysis that considers the recommended strategies for risk response. These
presentations are equivalent to the financial disclosures in Form 10-Q and Form 10-K
filings to the U.S. SEC by commercial public companies each quarter and for Form 8-K
filings as risk incidents occur.

•

Reputation impact — While subordinate risk registers describe risk scenarios, including
those that may impact reputation, executive leaders record the evaluation of
consequences on the enterprise’s reputation. This also supports the consideration of
other downstream impacts that are likely to result from damage to reputation, such as
financial losses or credit risk.

•

Mission impact — Executive leaders record the evaluation of consequences on the
overall ability for the enterprise to conduct its mission and achieve strategic objectives
(e.g., share value/market cap and share volatility tables for commercial public).

These high-level impact considerations are then used in conjunction with other enterprise risk
responses to determine tolerances, allocations, and disclosures that are commensurate with
risk exposure.
4.2. Translating the Risk Profile to Inform Leadership Decisions
The data presented in Table 7 must be distilled into actionable information for senior
leadership decision-making (e.g., during industry boardroom deliberations and its federal
analog). Table 8 provides a notional enterprise risk profile supplement that reflects a portfolio
evaluation of various organizational risk profiles.

47

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management
Table 8. Notional enterprise risk portfolio view for a private corporation
Financial Risk Profile
Current Period
Net Revenue

Capital

Previous Period
Free Cash Flow

Net Revenue

Capital

Free Cash Flow

Enterprise
Dept A
Dept B
…
Dept N
Reputation Risk Profile
Current Period
Public

Regulators

Previous Period
Partners

Public

Regulators

Partners

Enterprise
Dept A
Dept B
…
Dept N
Mission Risk Profile
Current Period

Previous Period

Enterprise
Dept A
Dept B
…
Dept N

4.3. Information and Decision Flows in Support of ERM
As stated in Sec. 2.1, enterprise senior leaders provide risk strategy and guidance to the
organizations within their purview, including advice regarding mission priority, risk appetite and
tolerance guidance, and capital and operating expenses to manage known risks. Based on those
governance structures, organization managers achieve their business objectives by managing
and monitoring processes that properly balance the risks and resource utilization with the value
created by information and technology. Prioritized risk profile information is developed at each
level, normalized, and summarized for enterprise consideration. Risk registers that reflect
successes, challenges, opportunities, and increased risks enable enterprise-level managers to
manage, monitor, and report potential implications to and from the risk profile with a portfolio
perspective.
Enterprise-focused activities do not relieve risk owners of their responsibilities within their own
organizations. Individual cybersecurity risks are managed and tracked within each organization
and will likely be handled differently in each. Each organization’s risk officer develops its
assessment of risks through the risk profile relative to its business objectives and risk tolerance.

48

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Enterprise risk officers then consider the overall set of risks to determine how the composite
set compares to the overall risk appetite. They might then help those at lower levels of the
enterprise to maintain the current course of action, or they may suggest different or additional
steps to reduce risk. In some cases, enterprise leaders might determine that the overall risk is
significantly less than the enterprise risk appetite and decide to motivate organizational risk
officers to accept greater risk in targeted areas in order to enhance that organization’s value.

Fig. 8. Notional information and decision flows diagram with numbered steps

The following process considers the information and decision flows depicted in Fig. 8.
•

Step 1, ERM Directives. Senior executive leaders (e.g., department secretaries, agency
directors, immediate subordinate executives, corporate boards) consider the relative
importance of various environmental factors. External factors may include political,
economic, social, technological, legal, and environmental considerations; internal
factors may include the enterprise’s capital assets, people, processes, and technology.
These leaders may determine how those factors contribute to potential exposure, such
as achieving the enterprise’s mission, improving operations, enhancing reporting
reliability, and compliance postures. With the factors in mind, senior executive leaders
determine risk acceptance levels and resource allocations for all risk types
commensurate with impact and likelihood and balanced among and between all
enterprise risk exposures.
The result is mission and financial guidance for operational leaders at the
business/process level, including direction regarding available budget ceilings for
cybersecurity CapEx and OpEx and objectives for free cash flow. Direction regarding risk
appetite will vary by enterprise. As with risk analysis, risk appetite may be
49

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

communicated using qualitative, quantitative, and semi-qualitative methods. It could be
expressed as “low appetite” or “high appetite” for various risk categories or expressed
numerically, such as through a target percentage, a range of permissible downtime or
financial losses, or a ceiling (e.g., up to $1,000,000 in expenses).
•

In Step 2, Cybersecurity Activity 1, organizational managers receive this guidance and
perform a similar analysis for any subordinate organizations. They may utilize the CSF
2.0 [7] to frame, assess, manage, respond to, and report on risks within the business
unit and in support of enterprise objectives. The organization can use one or more
Target State Profiles (the organizing principles for control selection) that express desired
CSRM outcomes. Implementation and operation staff then apply those principles to
their systems through the NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF) or other
mechanisms [16].

•

In Step 3, Cybersecurity Activity 2, as risk is managed at the system level in accordance
with organizational direction, risk acceptance, and monitoring, results are provided to
organizational stakeholders. The risk determinations, decisions, and status are reported
through the organizational risk register and adjusted as necessary (see Sec. 3.6).

•

In Step 4, Translating Cybersecurity to ERM, high-level executives without fiduciary
reporting requirements (organization) and corporate officers with fiduciary reporting
requirements (enterprise) act upon risk registers, aggregate the information, normalize
results, analyze the results, prioritize the results for executive leadership, optimize the
results for risk appetite, and inform decisions. The risk categories facilitate
normalization and reporting. Through this process of aggregating, normalizing,
analyzing, and prioritizing risk register information, the enterprise risk officers and risk
committees can:
o Understanding actual and potential risks from threats and system failures
o Normalize risk management across the enterprise (e.g., if different exposure
scales were used in two business units, a “high risk exposure” in one may
represent a “moderate risk exposure” under the same conditions in another)
o Provide enterprise executives with information to measure and understand
potential exposure
o Inform operational risk mitigation activities and relate them to enterprise
mission and budgetary guidance to prioritize and optimize appropriate
responses
o Produce enterprise-level risk disclosures for required filings and hearings or for
formal reports as required (e.g., after a significant incident)
o Maintain a risk profile for use in disclosures, including the exposure
determination process and result, recent trends of enterprise improvement,
peer trends, and contingency strategies to inform periodic and incident-driven
disclosures

50

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

The information gained and adjustments to priority, risk appetite, and budget are then
provided through the next iteration of Step 1.
This cycle allows cybersecurity risks to be discussed in terms that are relevant for each target
audience. Detailed operational discussions may occur in Steps 2 and 3, and more abstracted
information may be used for executives and the Board in Steps 1 and 4.
While the steps above describe the aggregation of risk registers and risk profiles at the
enterprise level, similar activities occur throughout the organization. System risk registers may
be prioritized into system risk profiles, which may then be aggregated into risk registers at the
next level, such as department or organization. As these are prioritized, they become
organizational risk profiles that support an aggregated portfolio risk register. OMB Circular A123 states that “agencies must complete their initial risk profiles in coordination with the
agency Strategic Reviews,” and “no less than annually, all agencies must prepare a complete
risk profile and include required risk components and elements required by this guidance” [3].
The steps discussed above generate risk reports. Regarding federal agencies, IR 8170 [4]
contains the following guidance:
Reports often need to be distributed to a variety of audiences, including
business process personnel who manage risk as part of their daily
responsibilities, senior executives who approve and are responsible for
agency operations and investment strategies based on risk, other
internal units, and external organizations. This means that reports need
to be clear, understandable, and vary significantly in both transparency
and detail, depending on the recipient and report requirement.
Furthermore, reporting timelines need to match the expectations of the
receiving parties in order to minimize the time between the
measurement of risk and delivery of the report. A standardized
reporting format can assist agencies in meeting multiple cybersecurity
reporting needs.
4.4. Conclusion
Cybersecurity events can have consequences that significantly impact an enterprise’s finances,
reputation, and mission. From a financial perspective, the compromise of the integrity of
financial statements (e.g., income statement, balance sheet, cash flow), assurance
statements, 39 and risk narratives in quarterly reports can cause an enterprise to deliver
inaccurate information to shareholders. In a modern digital economy, reputation and attentiondriven business become inextricably linked to mission impact. Cybersecurity risks can also
impact enterprise objectives that are established or influenced by different stakeholders (e.g.,
Congress, regulators, taxpayers, shareholders, clients, public, partners). Recognizing these and
39
Risk assessments directly inform annual assurance statements regarding the effectiveness of management controls (including system
controls) in both the public and private sector because they apply the same best practices and standards for risk management and internal
controls. Per OMB Circular A-123 for government, assurance statements are directly informed by risk analysis in a broad array of areas,
including financial and non-financial [3].

51

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

other enterprise vulnerabilities may become a demonstration of “duty of care” as the last line
of protection for legal and regulatory risk.
Through the mission-based portfolio approach outlined in this section, senior executives can
ensure that individual cybersecurity risks at the system level are collected, analyzed, and
aligned with enterprise strategic objectives. This collective understanding helps enterprise
leaders stay aware of and assess substantial cybersecurity risk changes, review risk and
performance results, and continually pursue improvement within the broader ERM to help the
organization achieve its stated mission.

52

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

References
[1]

[2]
[3]

[4]

[5]

[6]

[7]

[8]

[9]
[10]

Office of Management and Budget (2019) Preparation, Submission, and Execution of the
Budget. (The White House, Washington, DC), OMB Circular No. A-11, December 18,
2019. Available at https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/wpcontent/uploads/2018/06/a11.pdf
Chief Financial Officers Council (CFOC) and Performance Improvement Council (PIC)
(2016) Playbook: Enterprise Risk Management for the U.S. Federal Government.
Available at https://cfo.gov/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/FINAL-ERM-Playbook.pdf
Office of Management and Budget (2016) OMB Circular No. A-123, Management’s
Responsibility for Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control. (The White House,
Washington, DC), OMB Memorandum M-16-17, July 15, 2016. Available at
https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/memoranda/20
16/m-16-17.pdf
Barrett M, Marron J, Pillitteri VY, Boyens J, Quinn S, Witte G, Feldman L (2020)
Approaches for Federal Agencies to Use the Cybersecurity Framework. (National
Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Interagency Report (IR)
NIST IR 8170. Includes updates as of August 17, 2021.
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8170-upd
Joint Task Force (2020) Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and
Organizations. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST
Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-53r5. Includes updates as of December 10, 2020.
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-53r5
Office of Management and Budget (2016) OMB Circular No. A-130, Managing
Information as a Strategic Resource. (The White House, Washington, DC), OMB Circular
No. A-130, July 28, 2016. Available at
https://trumpwhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/circulars/A130/
a130revised.pdf
National Institute of Standards and Technology (2024) The NIST Cybersecurity
Framework (CSF) 2.0. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg,
MD), NIST Cybersecurity White Paper (CSWP) NIST CSWP 29.
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.CSWP.29
Quinn S, Ivy N, Chua J, Scarfone K, Barrett M, Feldman L, Topper D, Witte G, Gardner RK
(2023) Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Risk Outcomes: Integrating
ICT Risk Management Programs with the Enterprise Risk Portfolio. (National Institute of
Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP
800-221A. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-221A
International Organization for Standardization (ISO) (2009) Risk management –
Vocabulary. ISO Guide 73:2009. Available at https://www.iso.org/standard/44651.html
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commission (2017)
Enterprise Risk Management—Integrating with Strategy and Performance, Executive
Summary. Available at
https://www.coso.org/_files/ugd/3059fc_61ea5985b03c4293960642fdce408eaa.pdf

53

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

[11]

[12]

[13]

[14]
[15]
[16]

[17]

[18]

[19]
[20]

[21]
[22]

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative (2011) Managing Information Security Risk:
Organization, Mission, and Information System View. (National Institute of Standards
and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-39.
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-39
Quinn SD, Ivy N, Barrett M, Feldman L, Witte GA, Gardner RK (2025) Identifying and
Estimating Cybersecurity Risk for Enterprise Risk Management. (National Institute of
Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Interagency Report (IR) NIST IR
8286Ar1. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286Ar1
Quinn SD, Ivy N, Chua J, Barrett M, Feldman L, Topper D, Witte GA, Gardner RK (2025)
Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform Risk Prioritization and Response. (National
Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Interagency Report (IR)
NIST IR 8286D-upd1. Includes updates as of February 26, 2025.
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286D-upd1
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commission (2013)
Internal Control—Integrated Framework, Executive Summary. Available at
https://www.coso.org/_files/ugd/3059fc_1df7d5dd38074006bce8fdf621a942cf.pdf
Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative (2012) Guide for Conducting Risk
Assessments. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST
Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-30r1. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-30r1
Joint Task Force (2018) Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and
Organizations: A System Life Cycle Approach for Security and Privacy. (National Institute
of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP
800-37r2. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-37r2
Quinn SD, Ivy N, Barrett M, Gardner RK, Smith MC, Witte GA (2025) Staging
Cybersecurity Risks for Enterprise Risk Management and Governance Oversight.
(National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Interagency
Report (IR) NIST IR 8286Cr1. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286Cr1
Petersen R, Santos D, Wetzel K, Smith M, Witte G (2020) Workforce Framework for
Cybersecurity (NICE Framework). (National Institute of Standards and Technology,
Gaithersburg MD), NIST SP (SP) NIST SP 800-181r1.
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-181r1
Association for Federal Enterprise Risk Management (2021) Federal ERM Areas of
Practice Guidance — 2021. Available at https://www.aferm.org/wpcontent/uploads/2022/02/AFERM-Federal-ERM-Areas-of-Practice-Guidance.pdf
Software Engineering Institute (2007) Introducing OCTAVE Allegro: Improving the
Information Security Risk Assessment Process. (Software Engineering Institute,
Pittsburgh, PA), Technical Report CMU/SEI-2007-TR-012. Available at
https://resources.sei.cmu.edu/asset_files/TechnicalReport/2007_005_001_14885.pdf
The MITRE Corporation (2025) ATT&CK. Available at https://attack.mitre.org
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) (2018) Commission Statement and
Guidance on Public Company Cybersecurity Disclosures. Available at
https://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/2018/33-10459.pdf

54

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

[23]
[24]
[25]

[26]

[27]

[28]

[29]

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) (2019) Risk management – Risk
assessment techniques. IEC 31010:2019. Available at
https://www.iso.org/standard/72140.html
The Open Group (2025) Open FAIR Body of Knowledge, Version 2.0. Available at
https://publications.opengroup.org/t230
Quinn SD, Ivy N, Barrett M, Witte GA, Gardner RK (2025) Prioritizing Cybersecurity Risk
for Enterprise Risk Management. (National Institute of Standards and Technology,
Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Interagency Report (IR) NIST IR 8286B-upd1.
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286B-upd1
Joint Task Force (2022) Assessing Security and Privacy Controls in Information Systems
and Organizations. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD),
NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-53Ar5. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.80053Ar5
Dempsey KL, Chawla NS, Johnson LA, Johnston R, Jones AC, Orebaugh AD, Scholl MA,
Stine KM (2011) Information Security Continuous Monitoring (ISCM) for Federal
Information Systems and Organizations. (National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-137.
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-137
Stine KM, Kissel RL, Barker WC, Fahlsing J, Gulick J (2008) Guide for Mapping Types of
Information and Information Systems to Security Categories. (National Institute of
Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP
800-60v1r1. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-60v1r1
International Organization for Standardization. (2022). ISO/IEC 27005:2022 Information
security, cybersecurity and privacy protection — Guidance on managing information
security risks. https://www.iso.org/standard/80585.html

55

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Appendix A. List of Symbols, Abbreviations, and Acronyms
Selected acronyms and abbreviations used in this paper are defined below.
AFR
Agency Financial Report
AIS
Automated Indicator Sharing
BIA
Business Impact Analysis
BYOD
Bring-Your-Own-Device
CapEx
Capital Expenditures
CBA
Cost-Benefit Analysis
CDM
Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation
CFO
Chief Financial Officer
CIO
Chief Information Officer
CISO
Chief Information Security Officer
COOP
Continuity of Operations
COSO
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
CPO
Chief Privacy Officer
CRO
Chief Risk Officer
CSAM
Cyber Security Assessment and Management
CSF
Cybersecurity Framework
C-SCRM
Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management
CSRM
Cybersecurity Risk Management

56

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

CSRR
Cybersecurity Risk Register
DHS
Department of Homeland Security
DoD
Department of Defense
eMASS
Enterprise Mission Assurance Support Service
ERM
Enterprise Risk Management
ERP
Enterprise Risk Profile
ERR
Enterprise Risk Register
ERSC
Enterprise Risk Steering Committee
GAO
U.S. Government Accountability Office
GRC
Governance, Risk, Compliance
HVA
High Value Asset
ICT
Information and Communications Technology
ICTRM
Information and Communications Technology Risk Management
IEC
International Electrotechnical Commission
IG
Inspector General
IoT
Internet of Things
IR
Internal or Interagency Report
ISAC
Information Sharing and Analysis Center
ISAO
Information Sharing and Analysis Organization

57

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

ISCM
Information Security Continuous Monitoring
ISO
International Organization for Standardization
KPI
Key Performance Indicator
KRI
Key Risk Indicator
NCCoE
National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence
NFC
National Finance Center
NOAA
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
OCTAVE
Operationally Critical Threat, Asset, and Vulnerability Evaluation
OLIR
National Online Informative References Program
OMB
Office of Management and Budget
OpEx
Operating Expenses
OT
Operational Technology
PESTLE
Political, Economic, Sociological, Technological, Legal, and Environmental
PMESII-PT
Political, Military, Economic, Social, Information, Infrastructure, Physical Environment, and Time
POA&M
Plan of Actions and Milestones
RAR
Risk Assessment Report
RMC
Risk Management Council or Committee
RMF
Risk Management Framework
SAORM
Senior Accountable Official for Risk Management

58

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

SEC
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
SEI
Software Engineering Institute
SP
Special Publication
SWOT
Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats
US-CERT
United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team

59

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Appendix B. Glossary
actual residual risk
The risk remaining after management has taken action to alter its severity. [10]
aggregation
The consolidation of similar or related information.
assets
The data, personnel, devices, systems, and facilities that enable the organization to achieve business purposes. [7]
context
The environment in which the enterprise operates and is influenced by the risks involved.
cybersecurity risk
The effect of uncertainty on or within information and technology. Cybersecurity risks relate to the loss of
confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information, data, or information or control systems and reflect the
potential adverse impacts to organizational operations (i.e., mission, functions, image, or reputation) and assets,
individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. [9][28]
enterprise
A top-level organization with unique risk management responsibilities based on its position in the hierarchy and
the roles and responsibilities of its officers.
enterprise risk
The effect of uncertainty on the enterprise’s mission and objectives.
enterprise risk management
An effective agency-wide approach to addressing the full spectrum of the organization’s significant risks by
understanding the combined impact of risks as an interrelated portfolio rather than addressing risks only within
silos. [1]
The culture, capabilities, and practices that organizations integrate with strategy-setting and apply when they carry
out that strategy with a purpose of managing risk in creating, preserving, and realizing value. [10]
enterprise risk register
A risk register at the enterprise level that contains normalized and aggregated inputs from subordinate
organizations’ risk registers and profiles.
exposure
The combination of likelihood and impact levels for a risk.
information system
A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing,
dissemination, or disposition of information. [5]
inherent risk
The risk to an entity in the absence of any direct or focused actions by management to alter its severity. [10]
internal control
An overarching mechanism that an enterprise uses to achieve and monitor enterprise objectives.
normalization
The conversion of information into consistent representations and categorizations.
opportunity
A condition that may result in a beneficial outcome.

60

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

organization
An entity of any size, complexity, or positioning within a larger organizational structure (e.g., a federal agency or a
company). [5]
plan of actions and milestones
A document for a system that “identifies tasks needing to be accomplished. It details resources required to
accomplish the elements of the plan, any milestones in meeting the tasks, and scheduled completion dates for the
milestones.” [16]
qualitative risk analysis
A method for risk analysis that is based on the assignment of a descriptor, such as low, medium, or high.
quantitative risk analysis
A method for risk analysis in which numerical values are assigned to both impact and likelihood based on statistical
probabilities and the monetarized valuation of loss or gain.
residual risk
The risk that remains after risk responses have been documented and performed.
risk
The effect of uncertainty on objectives. [1]
risk appetite
The types and amount of risk, on a broad level, [an organization] is willing to accept in its pursuit of value. [10]
The broad-based amount an enterprise is willing to accept in pursuit of its mission/vision. [3]
risk detail report
A report of detailed risk scenario information that supports the contents of a risk register entry, including risk
history information, risk analysis data, and information about individual and organizational accountability.
risk profile
A prioritized inventory of the most significant risks identified and assessed through the risk assessment process
versus a complete inventory of risks. [3]
risk register
A repository of risk information, including the data understood about risks over time. [1]
risk reserve
A type of management reserve in which funding or labor hours are set aside and employed if a risk is triggered to
ensure that the opportunity is realized or that the threat is avoided.
risk response
A way to keep risk within tolerable levels. Negative risks can be accepted, transferred, mitigated, or avoided.
Positive risks can be realized, shared, enhanced, or accepted.
risk tolerance
The organization’s or stakeholder’s readiness to bear the remaining risk after risk response in order to achieve its
objectives, with the consideration that such tolerance can be influenced by legal or regulatory requirements. [9]
security control
The safeguards or countermeasures that are prescribed for an information system or organization to protect the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system and its information.
semi-qualitative risk analysis
A method for risk analysis with qualitative categories that are assigned numeric values to allow for the calculation
of numeric results.

61

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

system
A discrete set of information resources organized for the collection, processing, maintenance, use, sharing,
dissemination, or disposition of information. [5]
target residual risk
The amount of risk that an entity prefers to assume in the pursuit of its strategy and business objectives, knowing
that management will implement, or has implemented, direct or focused actions to alter the severity of the risk.
[10]
threat
Any circumstance or event with the potential to adversely impact organizational operations (a negative risk).
threat actor
A risk instigator with the capability to do harm.
threat source
A malicious person with harmful intent or an unintended or unavoidable situation (e.g., natural disaster, technical
failure, human error) that may trigger a vulnerability.
vulnerability
A condition that enables a threat event to occur.

62

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Appendix C. Federal Government Sources for Identifying Risks
This appendix lists some notional sources to help Federal Government agencies to identify risks.
These sources are intended to supplement risk management programs and do not by
themselves constitute the foundation of a risk management program.
•

Agency reports and self-assessments
o Previous year Federal Managers and Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA) reports, selfassessments and related assurance statements


Entity-level control interviews and evidence documentation



Assessments of agency processes and thousands of documented controls



Documented control deficiencies, including their level of significance (i.e.,
simple, significant, or material weakness)



Corrective actions associated with the deficiencies and tracked to either
remediation or risk acceptance

o Financial management risks documented in the agency’s Annual Report
o Project management risks documented in the agency’s investment and project
management processes
o Anything raised during Strategic Objectives Annual Reviews, quarterly
performance reviews, Risk Management Council (RMC), etc.
•

Inspector General (IG) and Government Accountability Office (GAO)
o IG Management Challenges documented annually in the agency’s Annual
Financial Report (AFR)
o IG audits and the outstanding corrective actions associated with those audits
o GAO audits and the outstanding corrective actions associated with those audits

•

Congress
o Issues and risks identified during Congressional Hearings and Questions for the
Record

•

Media
o Issues and risks identified in the news media

63

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Appendix D. Excerpt from a Notional Cybersecurity Risk Register (CSRR)
The risk register provides an important mechanism for recording and communicating risk decisions. Table 9 provides a completed notional
cybersecurity risk register, including an example of positive risk (ID 4).
Table 9. Excerpt from a notional cybersecurity risk register
ID

Priority

Risk Description

Risk Category

1

5

PC stolen from the
reception area

2

1

External malicious
actor deploys a
ransomware
attack causing
unavailability of
financial systems
A natural disaster
disrupts
communications
circuits, impeding
customer access
Human Resource
systems move to a
cloud solution,
providing savings
from in-house IT
infrastructure and
improving
availability
Portable
workstation
containing digital
designs is lost
(e.g., left in a taxi)

3

4

4

3

5

2

Current Assessment

Risk
Response
Type

Risk
Response
Cost

7.5%
(Low)

Accept

$0

80%
(High)

Mitigate

$3.7M

Exposure
Rating

Risk Response Description

Risk
Owner

Status

Likelihood

Impact

Physical and
Environmental
Protection (PE)
System and
Information
Integrity (SI)

.75

.1

.9

.9

Contingency
Planning (CP)

.4

.3

12%
(Low)

Transfer

$125K

• Purchase business
continuity insurance to
reimburse for operational
disruption

System and
Services
Acquisition (SA)

.5

.5

25%
(Moderate)

Exploit

$2M

• Conduct mitigation of any
SaaS provider security
needs
• Confirm system reliability
• Decommission internal HR
minicomputer

Amir
Marsh

Open

System and
Comm.
Protection (SC)

.8

.7

56%
(Moderate)

Mitigate

$275K

• Implement full disk
encryption of sensitive
devices (SC-28(01), CSF
PR.DS-01)
• Implement remote tracking
(PE-20, CSF PR.AA-06)
• Ensure backup plans of
designs (SC-28, PR.DS-11)

Jeffrey
Contreras

Updated

64

• None Required

Kira
Caldwell

Open

• Segment internal networks
(AC-4, CSF PR.IR-01)
• Improve backup plans (CP9, CSF PR.DS-11)

Jemima
Daugherty

Open

Carly
Hickman
(backup)
Mark
Winters

Closed

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Appendix E. Notional Enterprise Risk Register
Table 10 provides a notional enterprise risk register that combines both federal agency and critical infrastructure risks to illustrate the integration
of various cybersecurity risks with key enterprise risks. This table directly supports the discussion in Sec. 3.9 of this report.
Table 10. Notional enterprise risk register

ID

Priority

1

5

Retiring staff lead
to personnel
shortages

Operational
Risk

Current
Financial
Impact
OpEx M
CapEx L

2

6

Operational
Risk

OpEx M
CapEx L

3

1

A strategic
opportunity to
hire a globally
recognized
technologist leads
to establishing a
new satellite
communications
initiative 40
A social
engineering
attack on the
enterprise
workforce leads
to a breach or loss

Operational
Risk

OpEx M
CapEx L

Risk Description

Risk
Category

Current
Reputation
Impact
L

Current
Mission
Impact

Current
Likelihood

Current
Exposure
Rating

M

M

M

H

M

M

M

H

M

H

H

40 This is an example response to an opportunity (positive risk).

65

Risk Response

Risk Owner

Status

• Improve hiring diversity
• Improve employee benefits
packages per recent survey and
discussions
• Allocate funds for compensation
package
• Initiate strategic recruiting plan

Dwayne Rhodes
(Human
Resources
Department)
Dwayne Rhodes
(Human
Resources
Department)

Open

• Update corporate IT security
training
• Implement phishing training
service
• Update email security products
per recommendations from the
IT Risk Council

Carly Franklin
(CISO)

Open

Open

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

ID

Priority

4

3

A security event
at a third-party
partner results in
data loss or
system outage

Operational
Risk

Current
Financial
Impact
OpEx L
CapEx L

5

7

Financial
Risk

OpEx M
CapEx L

6

8

A sales reduction
due to tariffs
leads to reduced
revenue
Customer budget
tightening results
in reduced
revenue and
profits

Financial
Risk

7

9

Failure to
innovate results
in market share
erosion

Strategic
Risk

Risk Description

Risk
Category

Current
Reputation
Impact
H

Current
Mission
Impact

Current
Likelihood

Current
Exposure
Rating

H

M

M

L

L

L

L

OpEx M
CapEx L

L

L

M

M

OpEx M
CapEx
M

M

L

M

L

66

Risk Response

Risk Owner

Status

• Chief Financial Officer and Chief
Executive Officer agree on plans
for potential secondary financial
impacts from the high-rated
reputational risk impact
• Update procurement contract
requirements to include
protection, detection, and
notification clauses per
11/3/2019 report from legal
department
• Implement 3rd Party Partner
Assessment for Tier 1 providers
per CIO and CISO
recommendations
• Increase marketing in target
areas
• Ensure competitive pricing in
target markets
• Implement customer surveys to
better forecast potential
changes in purchasing patterns
• Improve cost-cutting measures
to offset reductions and
maintain profitability
• Approve CIO proposal to
increase Internal Research and
Development (IRAD) funding by
10 % to spur and expand internal
innovation
• Update technical training to
include design thinking
methodologies

Ernest Woods
(Procurement)

Open

Elaine Kim
(VP Sales)

Open

Elaine Kim
(VP Sales)

Open

Sharika Grigsby
(VP, Product
Development)

Open

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

ID

Priority

Risk Description

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management
Risk
Category

Current
Financial
Impact

Current
Reputation
Impact

Current
Mission
Impact

Current
Likelihood

Current
Exposure
Rating

8

2

Company
intellectual
property data is
disclosed through
employee error or
a malicious act

Operational
Risk

OpEx M
CapEx
M

H

H

M

M

9

10

A flaw in product
quality leads to
reputational
damage and
reduced sales

Strategic
Risk

OpEx M
CapEx
M

H

H

L

L

10

4

A regulatory
compliance
failure exposes
the company to
fines, penalties,
and legal fees

Compliance
Risk

OpEx M
CapEx L

H

L

M

M

67

Risk Response
• Implement customer surveys in
target areas to ensure adequate
product coverage
• Review and improve employee
background screening controls
• Update corporate security
training to reinforce the need for
diligence
• Implement data loss prevention
tools per CISO recommendation
• Update the continuous
improvement process
• Implement the Baldrige
Excellence Framework
• Update external provider quality
standards
• Create and maintain a
centralized register of
compliance requirements
• Update employee training based
on an updated understanding of
corporate requirements
• Review BIA templates to ensure
that information and technology
requirements include regulatory
and contractual obligation
criteria

Risk Owner

Status

Carly Franklin
(CISO)

Closed

Sharika Grigsby
(VP, Product
Development)

Open

Mark Braxton
(Legal Dept.)

Open

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

Appendix F. Change Log
In August 2025, the following changes were made to this report:
•

All — Made minor editorial changes throughout the report to implement the current
NIST IR template.

•

All — Updated all Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) references and excerpts throughout
the report from version 1.1 to version 2.0.

•

Executive Summary and Sec. 1.1 — Added content on how SP 800-221A relates to the IR
8286 series.

•

Section 2.1.2 — Removed Table 1 (similarities among selected ERM and risk
management documents) and its corresponding text.

•

Section 2 — Removed the original Sec. 2.2 (“Shortcomings of Typical Approaches to
Cybersecurity Risk Management”). Moved content of the original Sec. 2.3.1
(“Insufficient Asset Information”) to Sec. 3.2.1 (“Inventory and Valuation of Assets”).

•

Section 2.2 — Added a paragraph on complex systems of systems that is partially based
on the original Sec. 2.2.4 (“Increasing System and Ecosystem Complexity”). Added a
recommendation to perform a BIA and a pointer to IR 8286D for more information.
Expanded the list of risk management activities during which cybersecurity risk registers
should be used.

•

Section 3.1.2 — Made significant content revisions throughout (“Risk Management
Strategy”).

•

Section 3.2 — Added content on using the BIA register and a pointer to IR 8286D for
more information.

•

Section 3.2.1 — Made significant content revisions throughout (“Inventory and
Valuation of Assets”).

•

Section 3.3.2 — Added a pointer to IR 8286A for additional information on estimating
the likelihood and impact of consequences.

•

Section 3.4 — Added a pointer to IR 8286B for additional information on techniques for
prioritizing risks.

•

Section 3.5 — Added a pointer to IR 8286B for additional information on risk response
strategies.

•

Section 3.5.2 — Moved Figure 7, “Excerpt from a notional cybersecurity risk register” to
a new Appendix D

•

Section 3.6 — Added a pointer to IR 8286C for additional information on risk
monitoring, evaluation, and adjustment.

68

NIST IR 8286r1
December 2025

Integrating Cybersecurity and
Enterprise Risk Management

•

Section 3.6.2 — Expanded content to include key performance indicators and point to IR
8286C for more information.

•

Section 3.8 — Added pointers to IR 8286C for additional information on cybersecurity
risk register aggregation, normalization, analysis, and prioritization and on integrating
cybersecurity risk into the ERR/ERP. Added content on information and communications
technology risk management (ICTRM) and a pointer to SP 800-221A for more
information. Added a list of actions for designated risk officers and senior management
to perform on risk registers.

•

Section 3.9 — Moved the large table with the notional enterprise risk register to a new
Appendix E. Added a new small table with an excerpt from the large table.

•

Section 4.1 — Transposed and adjusted the content of the table with the illustrative
example of a risk profile to improve its readability and accessibility.

•

Section 4.4 — Updated the conclusion.

•

References — Updated references to reflect current versions and URLs. Renumbered
references to indicate their current order within the document.

69

