Reminder
Publication 541

(Rev. December 2025)

Partnerships

Photographs of missing children. The Internal Revenue Service is a proud partner with the National Center for
Missing & Exploited Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of
missing children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank.
You can help bring these children home by looking at the
photographs
and
calling
1-800-THE-LOST
(1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
This publication provides supplemental federal income tax
information for partnerships and partners. It supplements
the information provided in the Instructions for Form 1065,
U.S. Return of Partnership Income; the Partner’s Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Partner’s Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, etc.; and the instructions for
Schedule K-2 and Schedule K-3 (Form 1065). Generally,
a partnership doesn’t pay tax on its income but passes
through any profits or losses to its partners. Partners must
include partnership items on their tax returns.
For a discussion of business expenses a partnership
can deduct, see the 2022 version of Pub. 535, Business
Expenses, at Publication 535, Business Expenses (2022).
Partnerships can’t deduct depletion on oil and gas wells.
Each partner must determine the allowable amount to report on their return. As such, members of oil and gas partnerships should read about the deduction for depletion in
chapter 9 of that publication.
Each partnership must designate a partnership representative unless the partnership has made a valid election
out of the centralized partnership audit regime. See Designated Partnership Representative (PR) in the Form 1065
instructions and Regulations section 301.6223-1.
Withholding on foreign partner or firm. A partnership
that has foreign partners or engages in certain transactions with foreign persons may have one (or more) of the
following obligations.

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Dec 18, 2025

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Fixed or determinable annual or periodical (FDAP)
income. A partnership may have to withhold tax on distributions to a foreign partner or a foreign partner’s distributive share when it earns income not effectively connected
with a U.S. trade or business. A partnership may also have
to withhold on payments to a foreign person of FDAP income not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. See section 1441 or 1442 for more information.
Withholding under the Foreign Investment in Real
Property Tax Act (FIRPTA). If a partnership acquires a
U.S. real property interest from a foreign person or firm,
the partnership may have to withhold tax on the amount it
pays for the property (including cash, the fair market value
(FMV) of other property, and any assumed liability). See
section 1445 for more information.

Publication 541 (Rev. 12-2025) Catalog Number 15071D
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

Withholding on foreign partner’s effectively con­
nected taxable income (ECTI). If a partnership has income effectively connected with a trade or business in the
United States (including gain on the disposition of a U.S.
real property interest), it must withhold on the ECTI allocable to its foreign partners. See section 1446(a) for more information.
Withholding on foreign partner’s sale of a partner­
ship interest. A purchaser of a partnership interest,
which may include the partnership itself, may have to withhold tax on the amount realized by a foreign partner on the
sale for that partnership interest if the partnership is engaged in a trade or business in the United States. See
section 1446(f) for more information.
Withholding under the Foreign Account Tax Com­
pliance Act (FATCA). A partnership may have to withhold tax on distributions to a foreign partner of a foreign
partner’s distributive share when it earns withholdable
payments. A partnership may also have to withhold on
withholdable payments that it makes to a foreign entity.
See sections 1471 through 1474 for more information. A
partnership that has a duty to withhold but fails to withhold
may be held liable for the tax, applicable penalties, and interest. See section 1461 for more information.
For more information on withholding on nonresident aliens and foreign entities, see Pub. 515.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.
Additional forms. A list of other forms and statements
that a partnership may need to file is included at the end
2

of this publication. Also, see the instructions for the partnership’s tax return for additional forms and statements
that may be required.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
334 Tax Guide for Small Business
334

505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
505

515 Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and
Foreign Entities
515

537 Installment Sales
537

538 Accounting Periods and Methods
538

544 Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets
544

551 Basis of Assets
551

925 Passive Activity and At-Risk Rules
925

946 How To Depreciate Property
946

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for
information about getting publications and forms.

Forming a Partnership
The following sections contain general information about
partnerships.

Organizations Classified as
Partnerships
An unincorporated organization with two or more members is generally classified as a partnership for federal tax
purposes if its members carry on a trade, business, financial operation, or venture and divide its profits. However, a
joint undertaking merely to share expenses is not a partnership. For example, co-ownership of property maintained and rented or leased is not a partnership unless the
co-owners provide services to the tenants.
The rules you must use to determine whether an organization is classified as a partnership changed for organizations formed after 1996.
Organizations formed after 1996. An organization
formed after 1996 is classified as a partnership for federal
tax purposes if it has two or more members and it is none
of the following.

• An organization formed under a federal or state law
that refers to it as incorporated or as a corporation,
body corporate, or body politic.

• An organization formed under a state law that refers to
it as a joint-stock company or joint-stock association.

• An insurance company.
• Certain banks.
Publication 541 (12-2025)

• An organization wholly owned by a state, local, or for• An organization specifically required to be taxed as a

For more information about community property, see
Pub. 555, Community Property. Pub. 555 discusses the
community property laws of Arizona, California, Idaho,
Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and
Wisconsin.

• Certain foreign organizations identified in Regulations

Partnership Interests Created by Gift

• A tax-exempt organization.
• A real estate investment trust (REIT).
• An organization classified as a trust under Regulations

Gift of capital interest. If a family member (or any other
person) receives a gift of a capital interest in a partnership
in which capital is a material income-producing factor, the
donee’s distributive share of partnership income is subject
to both of the following restrictions.

eign government.

corporation by the Internal Revenue Code (for example, certain publicly traded partnerships).
section 301.7701-2(b)(8).

section 301.7701-4 or otherwise subject to special
treatment under the Internal Revenue Code.

• Any other organization that elects to be classified as a
corporation by filing Form 8832.

For more information, see the instructions for Form 8832.
Limited liability company (LLC). An LLC is an entity
formed under state law by filing articles of organization as
an LLC. Unlike a partnership, none of the members of an
LLC are personally liable for its debts. However, if the LLC
is an employer, an LLC member may be liable for employer-related penalties. See Pub. 15, (Circular E), Employer’s Tax Guide, and Pub. 3402, Taxation of Limited Liability Companies. An LLC may be classified for federal
income tax purposes as either a partnership, a corporation, or an entity disregarded as an entity separate from its
owner by applying the rules in Regulations section
301.7701-3. See Form 8832 and Regulations section
301.7701-3 for more details.
Tip: A domestic LLC with at least two members that
doesn’t file Form 8832 is classified as a partnership for
federal income tax purposes.
Organizations formed before 1997. An organization
formed before 1997 and classified as a partnership under
the old rules will generally continue to be classified as a
partnership as long as the organization has at least two
members and doesn’t elect to be classified as a corporation by filing Form 8832.
Community property. Spouses who own a qualified entity (defined below) can choose to classify the entity as a
partnership for federal tax purposes by filing the appropriate partnership tax returns. They can choose to classify
the entity as a sole proprietorship by filing a Schedule C
(Form 1040), Profit or Loss From Business, listing one
spouse as the sole proprietor. A change in reporting position will be treated for federal tax purposes as a conversion of the entity.
A qualified entity is a business entity that meets all the
following requirements.

• The business entity is wholly owned by spouses as

community property under the laws of a state, a foreign country, or a possession of the United States.

• No person other than one or both spouses would be
considered an owner for federal tax purposes.

• The business entity is not treated as a corporation.
Publication 541 (12-2025)

• It must be figured by reducing the partnership income
by reasonable compensation for services the donor
renders to the partnership.

• The donee’s distributive share of partnership income

attributable to donated capital must not be proportionately greater than the donor’s distributive share attributable to the donor’s capital.

Purchase considered gift. For purposes of determining
a partner’s distributive share, an interest purchased by
one family member from another family member is considered a gift from the seller. The FMV of the purchased interest is considered donated capital. For this purpose, members of a family include only spouses, ancestors, and
lineal descendants (or a trust for the primary benefit of
those persons).

Partnership Interests Held in Connection
With Performance of Services
Section 1061 recharacterizes certain net long-term capital
gains of a partner that holds one or more applicable partnership interests as short-term capital gains. The provision generally requires that a capital asset be held for
more than 3 years for capital gain and loss allocated with
respect to any applicable partnership interest (API) to be
treated as long-term capital gain or loss. Proposed Regulations (REG-107213-18) were published in the Federal
Register on August 14, 2020. Final regulations (Treasury
Decision 9945) were published in the Federal Register on
January 19, 2021. Treasury Decision 9945, 2021-5 I.R.B.
627, is available at IRS.gov/irb/2021-5_IRB#TD-9945.
Owner taxpayers and pass-through entities may rely on
the proposed regulations for tax years beginning before
January 19, 2021 (the date final regulations were published in the Federal Register), provided they follow the
proposed regulations in their entirety and in a consistent
manner. An owner taxpayer or pass-through entity may
choose to apply the final regulations to a tax year beginning after December 31, 2017, provided that they consistently apply the final section 1061 regulations in their entirety to that year and all subsequent years. Owner
taxpayers and pass-through entities must apply the final
regulations to tax years beginning on or after January 19,
2021. See Section 1061 Reporting Instructions, later.
Applicable partnership interest (API). An API is any interest in a partnership that, directly or indirectly, is
3

transferred to (or is held by) the taxpayer in connection
with the performance of substantial services by the taxpayer, or any other related person, in any applicable trade
or business. The special recharacterization rule applies to:

(Form 1040) in the name of one spouse as a sole proprietor. However, the spouses can elect not to treat the joint
venture as a partnership by making a qualified joint venture election.

1. Capital gains recognized by a partner from the sale or
exchange of an API under sections 741(a) and
731(a); and

Qualified Joint Venture Election

2. Capital gains recognized by a partnership, allocated
to a partner with respect to an API.
Applicable trade or business. An “applicable trade or
business” means any activity conducted on a regular, continuous, and substantial basis (regardless of whether the
activity is conducted through one or more entities) which
consists in whole or in part of raising and returning capital,
and either:

• Investing in or disposing of “specific assets” (or identifying specified assets for investing or disposition), or

• Developing specified assets.
Specified assets. Specified assets are:

• Securities (as defined in section 475(c)(2), under rules
for mark-to-market accounting for securities dealers);

• Commodities (as defined under rules for mark-to-market accounting for commodities dealers in section
475(e)(2));

• Real estate held for rental or investment;
• Options or derivative contracts with respect to such
securities;

• Cash or cash equivalents; or
• An interest in a partnership to the extent of the partnership’s proportionate interest in the foregoing.

Security. A “security” for this purpose means any of the
following.

• Share of corporate stock.
• Partnership interest or beneficial ownership interest in
a widely held or publicly traded partnership or trust.

• Note, bond, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness.

• Interest rate, currency, or equity notional principal contract.

• Interest in or derivative financial instrument in any

such security or any currency (regardless of whether
section 1256 applies to the contract).

A qualified joint venture, whose only members are spouses filing a joint return, can elect not to be treated as a
partnership for federal tax purposes. A qualified joint venture conducts a trade or business where the only members of the joint venture are spouses filing jointly; both
spouses elect not to be treated as a partnership; both
spouses materially participate in the trade or business
(see Passive Activity Limitations in the Instructions for
Form 1065 for a definition of material participation); and
the business is co-owned by both spouses and is not held
in the name of a state law entity such as a partnership or
an LLC.
Under this election, a qualified joint venture conducted
by spouses who file a joint return is not treated as a partnership for federal tax purposes and therefore doesn’t
have a Form 1065 filing requirement. All items of income,
gain, deduction, loss, and credit are divided between the
spouses based on their respective interests in the venture.
Each spouse takes into account their respective share of
these items as a sole proprietor. Each spouse would account for their respective share on the appropriate form,
such as Schedule C (Form 1040). For purposes of determining net earnings from self-employment, each spouse’s
share of income or loss from a qualified joint venture is
taken into account just as it is for federal income tax purposes (that is, based on their respective interests in the
venture).
If the spouses do not make the election to treat their respective interests in the joint venture as sole proprietorships, each spouse should carry their share of the partnership income or loss from Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) to
their joint or separate Form(s) 1040. Each spouse should
include their respective share of self-employment income
on a separate Schedule SE (Form 1040), Self-Employment Tax.
This generally doesn’t increase the total tax on the return, but it does give each spouse credit for social security
earnings on which retirement benefits are based. However, this may not be true if either spouse exceeds the social security tax limitation.

• Position that is not such a security and is a hedge with

For more information on qualified joint ventures, go to
IRS.gov/QJV.

Business Owned and Operated by Spouses

Partnership Agreement

If spouses carry on a business together and share in the
profits and losses, they may be partners whether or not
they have a formal partnership agreement. If so, they
should report income or loss from the business on Form
1065. They should not report the income on a Schedule C

The partnership agreement includes the original agreement and any modifications. The modifications must be
agreed to by all partners or adopted in any other manner
provided by the partnership agreement. The agreement or
modifications can be oral or written.

respect to such a security and is clearly identified.

4

Publication 541 (12-2025)

Partners can modify the partnership agreement for a
particular tax year after the close of the year but not later
than the date for filing the partnership return for that year.
This filing date doesn’t include any extension of time.
If the partnership agreement or any modification is silent on any matter, the provisions of local law are treated
as part of the agreement.

Terminating a Partnership
A partnership terminates when all its operations are discontinued and no part of any business, financial operation, or venture is continued by any of its partners in a
partnership.
See Regulations section 1.708-1(b)(1) for more information on the termination of a partnership. For special
rules that apply to a merger, consolidation, or division of a
partnership, see Regulations sections 1.708-1(c) and
1.708-1(d).
Date of termination. The partnership’s tax year ends on
the date of termination. The date of termination is the date
the partnership completes the winding up of its affairs.
Short period return. If a partnership is terminated before
the end of what would otherwise be its tax year, Form
1065 must be filed for the short period, which is the period
from the beginning of the tax year through the date of termination. The return is due the 15th day of the 3rd month
following the date of termination. See Partnership Return
(Form 1065), later, for information about filing Form 1065.
Conversion of partnership into LLC. The conversion of
a partnership into an LLC classified as a partnership for
federal tax purposes doesn’t terminate the partnership.
The conversion is not a sale, exchange, or liquidation of
any partnership interest; the partnership’s tax year doesn’t
close; and the LLC can continue to use the partnership’s
taxpayer identification number (TIN).
However, the conversion may change some of the partners’ bases in their partnership interests if the partnership
has recourse liabilities that become nonrecourse liabilities.
Because the partners share recourse and nonrecourse liabilities differently, their bases must be adjusted to reflect
the new sharing ratios. If a decrease in a partner’s share of
liabilities exceeds the partner’s basis, they must recognize
gain on the excess. For more information, see Effect of
Partnership Liabilities under Basis of Partner’s Interest,
later.
The same rules apply if an LLC classified as a partnership is converted into a partnership.

Electronic Filing
Certain partnerships that (a) are required by the Code or
regulations to file at least 10 returns during the calendar
year ending with or within the tax year of the partnership
or (b) have more than 100 partners are required to file
Form 1065, Schedule K-1, and related forms and
Publication 541 (12-2025)

schedules electronically. For tax years beginning after July
1, 2019, a religious or apostolic organization exempt from
income tax under section 501(d) must file Form 1065 electronically. Other partnerships generally have the option to
file electronically. For details about electronic filing, see
the Instructions for Form 1065.

Exclusion From Partnership
Rules
Certain partnerships that do not actively conduct a business can choose to be completely or partially excluded
from being treated as partnerships for federal income tax
purposes. All the partners must agree to make the choice,
and the partners must be able to figure their own taxable
income without figuring the partnership’s income. However, the partners are not exempt from the rule that limits a
partner’s distributive share of partnership loss to the adjusted basis of the partner’s partnership interest. Nor are
they exempt from the requirement of a business purpose
for adopting a tax year for the partnership that differs from
its required tax year.
Investing partnership. An investing partnership can be
excluded if the participants in the joint purchase, retention,
sale, or exchange of investment property meet all the following requirements.

• They own the property as co-owners.
• They reserve the right separately to take or dispose of
their shares of any property acquired or retained.

• They do not actively conduct business or irrevocably

authorize some person acting in a representative capacity to purchase, sell, or exchange the investment
property. Each separate participant can delegate authority to purchase, sell, or exchange their share of the
investment property for the time being for their account, but not for a period of more than a year.

Operating agreement partnership. An operating agreement partnership group can be excluded if the participants
in the joint production, extraction, or use of property meet
all the following requirements.

• They own the property as co-owners, either in fee or
under lease or other form of contract granting exclusive operating rights.

• They reserve the right separately to take in kind or dispose of their shares of any property produced, extracted, or used.

• They don’t jointly sell services or the property pro-

duced or extracted. Each separate participant can delegate authority to sell their share of the property produced or extracted for the time being for their account,
but not for a period of time in excess of the minimum
needs of the industry, and in no event for more than 1
year.

5

However, this exclusion doesn’t apply to an unincorporated organization one of whose principal purposes is cycling, manufacturing, or processing for persons who are
not members of the organization.
Electing the exclusion. An eligible organization that
wishes to be excluded from the partnership rules must
make the election not later than the time for filing the partnership return for the first tax year for which exclusion is
desired. This filing date includes any extension of time.
See Regulations section 1.761-2(b) for the procedures to
follow.

Partnership Return (Form
1065)
Every partnership that engages in a trade or business or
has gross income must file an information return on Form
1065 showing its income, deductions, and other required
information. The partnership return must show the names
and addresses of each partner and each partner’s distributive share of taxable income. The return must be signed
by a partner. If an LLC is treated as a partnership, it must
file Form 1065 and one of its members must sign the return.
A partnership is not considered to engage in a trade or
business and is not required to file a Form 1065 for any
tax year in which it neither receives income nor pays or incurs any expenses treated as deductions or credits for
federal income tax purposes.
See the Instructions for Form 1065 for more information
about who must file Form 1065.

Partnership Distributions
Partnership distributions include the following.

Effect on partnership. A partnership generally doesn’t
recognize any gain or loss because of distributions it
makes to partners. The partnership may be able to elect to
adjust the basis of its undistributed property.
Certain distributions treated as a sale or exchange.
When a partnership distributes the following items, the
distribution may be treated as a sale or exchange of property rather than a distribution.

• Unrealized receivables or substantially appreciated inventory items distributed in exchange for any part of
the partner’s interest in other partnership property, including money.

• Other property (including money) distributed in ex-

change for any part of a partner’s interest in unrealized
receivables or substantially appreciated inventory
items.

See Payments for Unrealized Receivables and Inventory Items under Disposition of Partner’s Interest, later.
This treatment doesn’t apply to the following distributions.

• A distribution of property to the partner who contributed the property to the partnership.

• Payments made to a retiring partner or successor in

interest of a deceased partner that are the partner’s
distributive share of partnership income or guaranteed
payments.

Substantially appreciated inventory items. Inventory items of the partnership are considered to have appreciated substantially in value if, at the time of the distribution, their total FMV is more than 120% of the
partnership’s adjusted basis for the property. However, if a
principal purpose for acquiring inventory property is to
avoid ordinary income treatment by reducing the appreciation to less than 120%, that property is excluded.

• A withdrawal by a partner in anticipation of the current

Partner’s Gain or Loss

• A distribution of the current year’s or prior years’ earn-

A partner generally recognizes gain on a partnership distribution only to the extent any money (and marketable securities treated as money) included in the distribution exceeds the adjusted basis of the partner’s interest in the
partnership. Any gain recognized is generally treated as
capital gain from the sale of the partnership interest on the
date of the distribution. If partnership property (other than
marketable securities treated as money) is distributed to a
partner, they generally don’t recognize any gain until the
sale or other disposition of the property.

year’s earnings.

ings not needed for working capital.

• A complete or partial liquidation of a partner’s interest.
• A distribution to all partners in a complete liquidation
of the partnership.

A partnership distribution is not taken into account in
determining the partner’s distributive share of partnership
income or loss. If any gain or loss from the distribution is
recognized by the partner, it must be reported on their return for the tax year in which the distribution is received.
Money or property withdrawn by a partner in anticipation
of the current year’s earnings is treated as a distribution
received on the last day of the partnership’s tax year.
Effect on partner’s basis. A partner’s adjusted basis in
their partnership interest is decreased (but not below zero)
by the money and adjusted basis of property distributed to
6

the partner. See Adjusted Basis under Basis of Partner’s
Interest, later.

For exceptions to these rules, see Distribution of partner’s debt and Net precontribution gain, later. Also, see
Payments for Unrealized Receivables and Inventory Items
under Disposition of Partner’s Interest, later.
Example. The adjusted basis of Jo’s partnership interest is $14,000. She receives a distribution of $8,000 cash
and land that has an adjusted basis of $2,000 and an FMV
Publication 541 (12-2025)

of $3,000. Because the cash received doesn’t exceed the
basis of her partnership interest, Jo doesn’t recognize any
gain on the distribution. Any gain on the land will be recognized when she sells or otherwise disposes of it. The distribution decreases the adjusted basis of Jo’s partnership
interest to $4,000 [$14,000 − ($8,000 + $2,000)].
Qualified opportunity investment. If you held a
qualified investment in a qualified opportunity fund (QOF)
at any time during the year, you must file your return with
Form 8997, Initial and Annual Statement of Qualified Opportunity Fund (QOF) Investments, attached. See the
Form 8997 instructions.
Marketable securities treated as money. Generally, a
marketable security distributed to a partner is treated as
money in determining whether gain is recognized on the
distribution. This treatment, however, doesn’t generally
apply if that partner contributed the security to the partnership or an investment partnership made the distribution to
an eligible partner.
The amount treated as money is the security’s FMV
when distributed, reduced (but not below zero) by the excess (if any) of:
1. The partner’s distributive share of the gain that would
be recognized had the partnership sold all its marketable securities at their FMV immediately before the
transaction resulting in the distribution, over
2. The partner’s distributive share of the gain that would
be recognized had the partnership sold all such securities it still held after the distribution at the FMV in
(1).
For more information, including the definition of marketable securities, see section 731(c).
Loss on distribution. A partner doesn’t recognize loss
on a partnership distribution unless all the following requirements are met.

• The adjusted basis of the partner’s interest in the partnership exceeds the distribution.

• The partner’s entire interest in the partnership is liquidated.

• The distribution is in money, unrealized receivables, or
inventory items.

There are exceptions to these general rules. See the
following discussions. Also, see Liquidation at Partner’s
Retirement or Death under Disposition of Partner’s Interest, later.
Distribution of partner’s debt. If a partnership acquires
a partner’s debt and extinguishes the debt by distributing it
to the partner, the partner will recognize capital gain or
loss to the extent the FMV of the debt differs from the basis of the debt (determined under the rules discussed under Partner’s Basis for Distributed Property, later).
The partner is treated as having satisfied the debt for its
FMV. If the issue price (adjusted for any premium or discount) of the debt exceeds its FMV when distributed, the

Publication 541 (12-2025)

partner may have to include the excess amount in income
as canceled debt.
Similarly, a deduction may be available to a corporate
partner if the FMV of the debt at the time of distribution exceeds its adjusted issue price.
Net precontribution gain. A partner generally must recognize gain on the distribution of property (other than
money) if the partner contributed appreciated property to
the partnership during the 7-year period before the distribution.
The gain recognized is the lesser of the following
amounts.
1. The excess of:
a. The FMV of the property received in the distribution; over
b. The adjusted basis of the partner’s interest in the
partnership immediately before the distribution, reduced (but not below zero) by any money received
in the distribution.
2. The net precontribution gain of the partner. This is the
net gain the partner would recognize if all the property
contributed by the partner within 7 years of the distribution and held by the partnership immediately before
the distribution were distributed to another partner,
other than a partner who owns more than 50% of the
partnership. For information about the distribution of
contributed property to another partner, see Contribution of Property under Transactions Between Partnership and Partners, later.
The character of the gain is determined by reference to
the character of the net precontribution gain. This gain is
in addition to any gain the partner must recognize if the
money distributed is more than their basis in the partnership.
For these rules, the term “money” includes marketable
securities treated as money, as discussed earlier under
Marketable securities treated as money.
Effect on basis. The adjusted basis of the partner’s
interest in the partnership is increased by any net precontribution gain recognized by the partner. Other than for
purposes of determining the gain, the increase is treated
as occurring immediately before the distribution. See Basis of Partner’s Interest, later.
The partnership must adjust its basis in any property
the partner contributed within 7 years of the distribution to
reflect any gain that partner recognizes under this rule.
Exceptions. Any part of a distribution that is property
the partner previously contributed to the partnership is not
taken into account in determining the amount of the excess distribution or the partner’s net precontribution gain.
For this purpose, the partner’s previously contributed
property doesn’t include a contributed interest in an entity
to the extent its value is due to property contributed to the
entity after the interest was contributed to the partnership.
Recognition of gain under this rule also doesn’t apply to
a distribution of unrealized receivables or substantially
appreciated inventory items if the distribution is treated as
7

a sale or exchange, as discussed earlier under Certain
distributions treated as a sale or exchange.

Partner’s Basis for Distributed
Property
Unless there is a complete liquidation of a partner’s interest, the basis of property (other than money) distributed to
the partner by a partnership is its adjusted basis to the
partnership immediately before the distribution. However,
the basis of the property to the partner cannot be more
than the adjusted basis of their interest in the partnership
reduced by any money received in the same transaction.
Example 1. The adjusted basis of Emily’s partnership
interest is $30,000. She receives a distribution of property
that has an adjusted basis of $20,000 to the partnership
and $4,000 in cash. Her basis for the property is $20,000.
Example 2. The adjusted basis of Steve’s partnership
interest is $10,000. He receives a distribution of $4,000
cash and property that has an adjusted basis to the partnership of $8,000. His basis for the distributed property is
limited to $6,000 ($10,000 − $4,000, the cash he receives).
Complete liquidation of partner’s interest. The basis
of property received in complete liquidation of a partner’s
interest is the adjusted basis of the partner’s interest in the
partnership reduced by any money distributed to the partner in the same transaction.
Partner’s holding period. A partner’s holding period for
property distributed to the partner includes the period the
property was held by the partnership. If the property was
contributed to the partnership by a partner, then the period
it was held by that partner is also included.
Basis divided among properties. If the basis of property received is the adjusted basis of the partner’s interest
in the partnership (reduced by money received in the
same transaction), it must be divided among the properties distributed to the partner. For property distributed after
August 5, 1997, allocate the basis using the following
rules.
1. Allocate the basis first to unrealized receivables and
inventory items included in the distribution by assigning a basis to each item equal to the partnership’s adjusted basis in the item immediately before the distribution. If the total of these assigned bases exceeds
the allocable basis, decrease the assigned bases by
the amount of the excess.
2. Allocate any remaining basis to properties other than
unrealized receivables and inventory items by assigning a basis to each property equal to the partnership’s
adjusted basis in the property immediately before the
distribution. If the allocable basis exceeds the total of
these assigned bases, increase the assigned bases
by the amount of the excess. If the total of these assigned bases exceeds the allocable basis, decrease
the assigned bases by the amount of the excess.
8

Allocating a basis increase. Allocate any basis increase required in rule (2) above first to properties with unrealized appreciation to the extent of the unrealized appreciation. If the basis increase is less than the total
unrealized appreciation, allocate it among those properties in proportion to their respective amounts of unrealized
appreciation. Allocate any remaining basis increase
among all the properties in proportion to their respective
FMVs.
Example. Eun’s basis in her partnership interest is
$55,000. In a distribution in liquidation of her entire interest, she receives properties A and B, neither of which is
inventory or unrealized receivables. Property A has an adjusted basis to the partnership of $5,000 and an FMV of
$40,000. Property B has an adjusted basis to the partnership of $10,000 and an FMV of $10,000.
To figure her basis in each property, Eun first assigns
bases of $5,000 to property A and $10,000 to property B
(their adjusted bases to the partnership). This leaves a
$40,000 basis increase (the $55,000 allocable basis minus the $15,000 total of the assigned bases). She first allocates $35,000 to property A (its unrealized appreciation). The remaining $5,000 is allocated between the
properties
based
on
their
FMVs.
$4,000
($40,000/$50,000) is allocated to property A and $1,000
($10,000/$50,000) is allocated to property B. Eun’s basis
in property A is $44,000 ($5,000 + $35,000 + $4,000) and
her basis in property B is $11,000 ($10,000 + $1,000).
Allocating a basis decrease. Use the following rules
to allocate any basis decrease required in rule (1) or rule
(2), earlier.
1. Allocate the basis decrease first to items with unrealized depreciation to the extent of the unrealized depreciation. If the basis decrease is less than the total
unrealized depreciation, allocate it among those items
in proportion to their respective amounts of unrealized
depreciation.
2. Allocate any remaining basis decrease among all the
items in proportion to their respective assigned basis
amounts (as decreased in (1)).
Example. Armando’s basis in his partnership interest
is $20,000. In a distribution in liquidation of his entire interest, he receives properties C and D, neither of which is inventory or unrealized receivables. Property C has an adjusted basis to the partnership of $15,000 and an FMV of
$15,000. Property D has an adjusted basis to the partnership of $15,000 and an FMV of $5,000.
To figure his basis in each property, Armando first assigns bases of $15,000 to property C and $15,000 to
property D (their adjusted bases to the partnership). This
leaves a $10,000 basis decrease (the $30,000 total of the
assigned bases minus the $20,000 allocable basis). He
allocates the entire $10,000 to property D (its unrealized
depreciation). Armando’s basis in property C is $15,000
and his basis in property D is $5,000 ($15,000 − $10,000).
Distributions before August 6, 1997. For property
distributed before August 6, 1997, allocate the basis using
the following rules.
Publication 541 (12-2025)

1. Allocate the basis first to unrealized receivables and
inventory items included in the distribution to the extent of the partnership’s adjusted basis in those items.
If the partnership’s adjusted basis in those items exceeded the allocable basis, allocate the basis among
the items in proportion to their adjusted bases to the
partnership.
2. Allocate any remaining basis to other distributed properties in proportion to their adjusted bases to the partnership.
Partner’s interest more than partnership basis. If
the basis of a partner’s interest to be divided in a complete
liquidation of the partner’s interest is more than the partnership’s adjusted basis for the unrealized receivables
and inventory items distributed, and if no other property is
distributed to which the partner can apply the remaining
basis, the partner has a capital loss to the extent of the remaining basis of the partnership interest.
Special adjustment to basis. A partner who acquired
any part of their partnership interest in a sale or exchange
or upon the death of another partner may be able to
choose a special basis adjustment for property distributed
by the partnership. To choose the special adjustment, the
partner must have received the distribution within 2 years
after acquiring the partnership interest. Also, the partnership must not have chosen the optional adjustment to basis when the partner acquired the partnership interest.
If a partner chooses this special basis adjustment, the
partner’s basis for the property distributed is the same as
it would have been if the partnership had chosen the optional adjustment to basis. However, this assigned basis is
not reduced by any depletion or depreciation that would
have been allowed or allowable if the partnership had previously chosen the optional adjustment.
The choice must be made with the partner’s tax return
for the year of the distribution if the distribution includes
any property subject to depreciation, depletion, or amortization. If the choice doesn’t have to be made for the distribution year, it must be made with the return for the first
year in which the basis of the distributed property is pertinent in determining the partner’s income tax.
A partner choosing this special basis adjustment must
attach a statement to their tax return that the partner chooses under section 732(d) to adjust the basis of property
received in a distribution. The statement must show the
computation of the special basis adjustment for the property distributed and list the properties to which the adjustment has been allocated.
Example. Chin Ho purchased a 25% interest in X partnership for $17,000 cash. At the time of the purchase, the
partnership owned inventory having a basis to the partnership of $14,000 and an FMV of $16,000. Thus, $4,000 of
the $17,000 he paid was attributable to his share of inventory with a basis to the partnership of $3,500.
Within 2 years after acquiring his interest, Chin Ho withdrew from the partnership and for his entire interest received cash of $1,500, inventory with a basis to the partnership of $3,500, and other property with a basis of
$6,000. The value of the inventory received was 25% of
Publication 541 (12-2025)

the value of all partnership inventory. (It is immaterial
whether the inventory he received was on hand when he
acquired his interest.)
Because the partnership from which Chin Ho withdrew
didn’t make the optional adjustment to basis, he chose to
adjust the basis of the inventory received. His share of the
partnership’s basis for the inventory is increased by $500
(25% of the $2,000 difference between the $16,000 FMV
of the inventory and its $14,000 basis to the partnership at
the time he acquired his interest). The adjustment applies
only for purposes of determining his new basis in the inventory, and not for purposes of partnership gain or loss
on disposition.
The total to be allocated among the properties Chin Ho
received in the distribution is $15,500 ($17,000 basis of
his interest − $1,500 cash received). His basis in the inventory items is $4,000 ($3,500 partnership basis + $500
special adjustment). The remaining $11,500 is allocated
to his new basis for the other property he received.
Mandatory adjustment. A partner doesn’t always
have a choice of making this special adjustment to basis.
The special adjustment to basis must be made for a distribution of property (whether or not within 2 years after the
partnership interest was acquired) if all the following conditions existed when the partner received the partnership
interest.

• The FMV of all partnership property (other than

money) was more than 110% of its adjusted basis to
the partnership.

• If there had been a liquidation of the partner’s interest

immediately after it was acquired, an allocation of the
basis of that interest under the general rules (discussed earlier under Basis divided among properties)
would have decreased the basis of property that
couldn’t be depreciated, depleted, or amortized and
increased the basis of property that could be.

• The optional basis adjustment, if it had been chosen

by the partnership, would have changed the partner’s
basis for the property actually distributed.

Required statement. Generally, if a partner chooses a
special basis adjustment and notifies the partnership, or if
the partnership makes a distribution for which the special
basis adjustment is mandatory, the partnership must provide a statement to the partner. The statement must provide information necessary for the partner to figure the
special basis adjustment.
Marketable securities. A partner’s basis in marketable
securities received in a partnership distribution, as determined in the preceding discussions, is increased by any
gain recognized by treating the securities as money. See
Marketable securities treated as money under Partner’s
Gain or Loss, earlier. The basis increase is allocated
among the securities in proportion to their respective
amounts of unrealized appreciation before the basis increase.

9

Transactions Between
Partnership and Partners
For certain transactions between a partner and their partnership, the partner is treated as not being a member of
the partnership. These transactions include the following.
1. Performing services for or transferring property to a
partnership if:
a. There is a related allocation and distribution to a
partner; and
b. The entire transaction, when viewed together, is
properly characterized as occurring between the
partnership and a partner not acting in the capacity of a partner.
2. Transferring money or other property to a partnership
if:
a. There is a related transfer of money or other property by the partnership to the contributing partner
or another partner, and
b. The transfers together are properly characterized
as a sale or exchange of property.
Payments by accrual basis partnership to cash basis
partner. A partnership that uses an accrual method of
accounting cannot deduct any business expense owed to
a cash basis partner until the amount is paid. However,
this rule doesn’t apply to guaranteed payments made to a
partner, which are generally deductible when accrued.

Guaranteed Payments
Guaranteed payments are those made by a partnership to
a partner that are determined without regard to the partnership’s income. A partnership treats guaranteed payments for services or for the use of capital as if they were
made to a person who is not a partner. This treatment is
for purposes of determining gross income and deductible
business expenses only. For other tax purposes, guaranteed payments are treated as a partner’s distributive share
of ordinary income. Guaranteed payments are not subject
to income tax withholding.
The partnership generally deducts guaranteed payments on Form 1065, line 10, as a business expense.
They are also listed on Schedules K and K-1 of the partnership return. The individual partner reports guaranteed
payments on Schedule E (Form 1040) as ordinary income, along with their distributive share of the partnership’s other ordinary income.
Guaranteed payments made to partners for organizing
the partnership or syndicating interests in the partnership
are capital expenses. Generally, organizational and syndication expenses are not deductible by the partnership.
However, a partnership can elect to deduct a portion of its
organizational expenses and amortize the remaining expenses (see Business start-up and organizational costs in
10

the Instructions for Form 1065). Organizational expenses
(if the election is not made) and syndication expenses
paid to partners must be reported on the partners’ Schedules K-1 as guaranteed payments.
Minimum payment. If a partner is to receive a minimum
payment from the partnership, the guaranteed payment is
the amount by which the minimum payment is more than
the partner’s distributive share of the partnership income
before taking into account the guaranteed payment.
Example. Under a partnership agreement, Divya is to
receive 30% of the partnership income, but not less than
$8,000. The partnership has net income of $20,000. Divya’s share, without regard to the minimum guarantee, is
$6,000 (30% × $20,000). The guaranteed payment that
can be deducted by the partnership is $2,000 ($8,000 −
$6,000). Divya’s income from the partnership is $8,000,
and the remaining $12,000 of partnership income will be
reported by the other partners in proportion to their shares
under the partnership agreement.
If the partnership net income had been $30,000, there
would have been no guaranteed payment because her
share, without regard to the guarantee, would have been
greater than the guarantee.
Self-employed health insurance premiums. Premiums
for health insurance paid by a partnership on behalf of a
partner, for services as a partner, are treated as guaranteed payments. The partnership can deduct the payments
as a business expense, and the partner must include
them in gross income. However, if the partnership accounts for insurance paid for a partner as a reduction in
distributions to the partner, the partnership cannot deduct
the premiums.
A partner who qualifies can deduct 100% of the health
insurance premiums paid by the partnership on their behalf as an adjustment to income. The partner cannot deduct the premiums for any calendar month, or part of a
month, in which the partner is eligible to participate in any
subsidized health plan maintained by any employer of the
partner, the partner’s spouse, the partner’s dependents, or
any children under age 27 who are not dependents. For
more information on the self-employed health insurance
deduction, see chapter 8 of Pub. 334.
Including payments in partner’s income. Guaranteed
payments are included in income in the partner’s tax year
in which the partnership’s tax year ends.
Example 1. Under the terms of a partnership agreement, Erica is entitled to a fixed annual payment of
$10,000 without regard to the income of the partnership.
Her distributive share of the partnership income is 10%.
The partnership has $50,000 of ordinary income after deducting the guaranteed payment. She must include ordinary income of $15,000 ($10,000 guaranteed payment +
$5,000 ($50,000 × 10%) distributive share) on her individual income tax return for her tax year in which the partnership’s tax year ends.

Publication 541 (12-2025)

Example 2. Lamont is a calendar year taxpayer who is
a partner in a partnership. The partnership uses a fiscal
year that ended January 31, 2025. Lamont received guaranteed payments from the partnership from February 1,
2024, until December 31, 2024. He must include these
guaranteed payments in income for 2025 and report them
on his 2025 income tax return.
Payments resulting in loss. If guaranteed payments
to a partner result in a partnership loss in which the partner shares, the partner must report the full amount of the
guaranteed payments as ordinary income. The partner
separately takes into account their distributive share of the
partnership loss, to the extent of the adjusted basis of the
partner’s partnership interest.

Sale or Exchange of Property
Special rules apply to a sale or exchange of property between a partnership and certain persons.
Losses. Losses will not be allowed from a sale or exchange of property (other than an interest in the partnership) directly or indirectly between a partnership and a
person whose direct or indirect interest in the capital or
profits of the partnership is more than 50%.
If the sale or exchange is between two partnerships in
which the same persons directly or indirectly own more
than 50% of the capital or profits interests in each partnership, no deduction of a loss is allowed.
The basis of each partner’s interest in the partnership is
decreased (but not below zero) by the partner’s share of
the disallowed loss.
If the purchaser later sells the property, only the gain realized that is greater than the loss not allowed will be taxable. If any gain from the sale of the property is not recognized because of this rule, the basis of each partner’s
interest in the partnership is increased by the partner’s
share of that gain.
Gains. Gains are treated as ordinary income in a sale or
exchange of property directly or indirectly between a person and a partnership or between two partnerships if both
of the following tests are met.

• More than 50% of the capital or profits interest in the
partnership(s) is directly or indirectly owned by the
same person(s).

• The property in the hands of the transferee immedi-

ately after the transfer is not a capital asset. Property
that is not a capital asset includes accounts receivable, inventory, stock-in-trade, and depreciable or real
property used in a trade or business.

More than 50% ownership. To determine if there is
more than 50% ownership in partnership capital or profits,
the following rules apply.
1. An interest directly or indirectly owned by or for a corporation, partnership, estate, or trust is considered to
be owned proportionately by or for its shareholders,
partners, or beneficiaries.
Publication 541 (12-2025)

2. An individual is considered to own the interest directly
or indirectly owned by or for the individual’s family. For
this rule, “family” includes only brothers, sisters,
half-brothers, half-sisters, spouses, ancestors, and
lineal descendants.
3. If a person is considered to own an interest using rule
(1), that person (the “constructive owner”) is treated
as if actually owning that interest when rules (1) and
(2) are applied. However, if a person is considered to
own an interest using rule (2), that person is not treated as actually owning that interest in reapplying rule
(2) to make another person the constructive owner.
Example. Individuals A and B and Trust T are equal
partners in Partnership ABT. A’s husband, AH, is the sole
beneficiary of Trust T. Trust T’s partnership interest will be
attributed to AH only for the purpose of further attributing
the interest to A. As a result, A is a more-than-50% partner. This means that any deduction for losses on transactions between her and ABT will not be allowed, and gain
from property that in the hands of the transferee is not a
capital asset is treated as ordinary, rather than capital,
gain.
More information. For more information on these special
rules, see Sales and Exchanges Between Related Persons in chapter 2 of Pub. 544.

Contribution of Property
Usually, neither the partner nor the partnership recognizes
a gain or loss when property is contributed to the partnership in exchange for a partnership interest. This applies
whether a partnership is being formed or is already operating. The partnership’s holding period for the property includes the partner’s holding period.
The contribution of limited partnership interests in one
partnership for limited partnership interests in another
partnership qualifies as a tax-free contribution of property
to the second partnership if the transaction is made for
business purposes. The exchange is not subject to the
rules explained later under Disposition of Partner’s Interest.
Disguised sales. A contribution of money or other property to the partnership followed by a distribution of different property from the partnership to the partner is treated
not as a contribution and distribution, but as a sale of
property, if both of the following tests are met.

• The distribution wouldn’t have been made but for the
contribution.

• The partner’s right to the distribution doesn’t depend
on the success of partnership operations.

All facts and circumstances are considered in determining if the contribution and distribution are more properly
characterized as a sale. However, if the contribution and
distribution occur within 2 years of each other, the transfers are presumed to be a sale unless the facts clearly indicate that the transfers are not a sale. If the contribution
11

and distribution occur more than 2 years apart, the transfers are presumed not to be a sale unless the facts clearly
indicate that the transfers are a sale.
Form 8275 required. A partner must attach Form
8275, Disclosure Statement (or other statement), to their
return if the partner contributes property to a partnership
and, within 2 years (before or after the contribution), the
partnership transfers money or other consideration to the
partner. For exceptions to this requirement, see Regulations section 1.707-3(c)(2).
A partnership must attach Form 8275 (or other statement) to its return if it distributes property to a partner,
and, within 2 years (before or after the distribution), the
partner transfers money or other consideration to the partnership.
Form 8275 must include the following information.

• A caption identifying the statement as a disclosure under section 707.

• A description of the transferred property or money, including its value.

• A description of any relevant facts in determining if the

transfers are properly viewed as a disguised sale. See
Regulations section 1.707-3(b)(2) for a description of
the facts and circumstances considered in determining if the transfers are a disguised sale.

Contribution to partnership treated as investment
company. Gain is recognized when property is contributed (in exchange for an interest in the partnership) to a
partnership that would be treated as an investment company if it were incorporated.
A partnership is generally treated as an investment
company if over 80% of the value of its assets is held for
investment and consists of certain readily marketable
items. These items include money, stocks and other
equity interests in a corporation and interests in regulated
investment companies (RICs) and REITs. For more information, see section 351(e)(1) and the related regulations.
Whether a partnership is treated as an investment company under this test is ordinarily determined immediately
after the transfer of property.
This rule applies to limited partnerships and general
partnerships, regardless of whether they are privately
formed or publicly syndicated.
Contribution to foreign partnership. A domestic partnership that contributed property after August 5, 1997, to
a foreign partnership in exchange for a partnership interest may have to file Form 8865, Return of U.S. Persons
With Respect to Certain Foreign Partnerships, if either of
the following applies.
1. Immediately after the contribution, the partnership
owned, directly, indirectly, or by attribution, at least a
10% interest in the foreign partnership.
2. The FMV of the property contributed to the foreign
partnership, when added to other contributions of
property made to the partnership during the preceding 12-month period, is greater than $100,000.
12

The partnership may also have to file Form 8865, even
if no contributions are made during the tax year, if it owns
a 10% or more interest in a foreign partnership at any time
during the year. See the form instructions for more information.
Basis of contributed property. If a partner contributes
property to a partnership, the partnership’s basis for determining depreciation, depletion, gain, or loss for the property is the same as the partner’s adjusted basis for the
property when it was contributed, increased by any gain
recognized by the partner at the time of contribution.
Allocations to account for built-in gain or loss. The
FMV of property at the time it is contributed may be different from the partner’s adjusted basis. The partnership
must allocate among the partners any income, deduction,
gain, or loss on the property in a manner that will account
for the difference. This rule also applies to contributions of
accounts payable and other accrued but unpaid items of a
cash basis partner.
The partnership can use different allocation methods
for different items of contributed property. A single reasonable method must be consistently applied to each item,
and the overall method or combination of methods must
be reasonable. See Regulations section 1.704-3 for allocation methods generally considered reasonable.
If the partnership sells contributed property and recognizes gain or loss, built-in gain or loss is allocated to the
contributing partner. If contributed property is subject to
depreciation or other cost recovery, the allocation of deductions for these items takes into account built-in gain or
loss on the property. However, the total depreciation, depletion, gain, or loss allocated to partners cannot be more
than the depreciation or depletion allowable to the partnership or the gain or loss realized by the partnership.
Example. Areta and Sofia formed an equal partnership. Areta contributed $10,000 in cash to the partnership
and Sofia contributed depreciable property with an FMV
of $10,000 and an adjusted basis of $4,000. The partnership’s basis for depreciation is limited to the adjusted basis of the property in Sofia’s hands, $4,000.
In effect, Areta purchased an undivided one-half interest in the depreciable property with her contribution of
$10,000. Assuming that the depreciation rate is 10% a
year under the General Depreciation System (GDS), she
would have been entitled to a depreciation deduction of
$500 per year, based on her interest in the partnership, if
the adjusted basis of the property equaled its FMV when
contributed. To simplify this example, the depreciation deductions are determined without regard to any first-year
depreciation conventions.
However, because the partnership is allowed only $400
per year of depreciation (10% of $4,000), no more than
$400 can be allocated between the partners. The entire
$400 must be allocated to Areta.
Distribution of contributed property to another partner. If a partner contributes property to a partnership and
the partnership distributes the property to another partner

Publication 541 (12-2025)

within 7 years of the contribution, the contributing partner
must recognize gain or loss on the distribution.
The recognized gain or loss is the amount the contributing partner would have recognized if the property had
been sold for its FMV when it was distributed. This amount
is the difference between the property’s basis and its FMV
at the time of contribution. The character of the gain or
loss will be the same as the character of the gain or loss
that would have resulted if the partnership had sold the
property to the distributee partner. Appropriate adjustments must be made to the adjusted basis of the contributing partner’s partnership interest and to the adjusted basis of the property distributed to reflect the recognized
gain or loss.
Disposition of certain contributed property. The following rules determine the character of the partnership’s
gain or loss on a disposition of certain types of contributed
property.
1. Unrealized receivables. If the property was an unrealized receivable in the hands of the contributing partner, any gain or loss on its disposition by the partnership is ordinary income or loss. Unrealized
receivables are defined later under Payments for Unrealized Receivables and Inventory Items. When
reading the definition, substitute “partner” for “partnership.”
2. Inventory items. If the property was an inventory
item in the hands of the contributing partner, any gain
or loss on its disposition by the partnership within 5
years after the contribution is ordinary income or loss.
Inventory items are defined later under Payments for
Unrealized Receivables and Inventory Items.
3. Capital loss property. If the property was a capital
asset in the contributing partner’s hands, any loss on
its disposition by the partnership within 5 years after
the contribution is a capital loss. The capital loss is
limited to the amount by which the partner’s adjusted
basis for the property exceeded the property’s FMV
immediately before the contribution.
4. Substituted basis property. If the disposition of any
of the property listed in (1), (2), or (3) is a nonrecognition transaction, these rules apply when the recipient
of the property disposes of any substituted basis
property (other than certain corporate stock) resulting
from the transaction.

Contribution of Services
A partner can acquire an interest in partnership capital or
profits as compensation for services performed or to be
performed.
Capital interest. A capital interest is an interest that
would give the holder a share of the proceeds if the partnership’s assets were sold at FMV and the proceeds were
distributed in a complete liquidation of the partnership.
This determination is generally made at the time of receipt
of the partnership interest. The FMV of such an interest
Publication 541 (12-2025)

received by a partner as compensation for services must
generally be included in the partner’s gross income in the
first tax year in which the partner can transfer the interest
or the interest is not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. The capital interest transferred as compensation for
services is subject to the rules for restricted property discussed under Employee Compensation in Pub. 525, Taxable and Nontaxable Income.
The FMV of an interest in partnership capital transferred to a partner as payment for services to the partnership
is a guaranteed payment, discussed earlier under Guaranteed Payments.
Profits interest. A profits interest is a partnership interest
other than a capital interest. If a person receives a profits
interest for providing services to or for the benefit of a partnership in a partner capacity or in anticipation of being a
partner, the receipt of such an interest is not a taxable
event for the partner or the partnership. However, this
doesn’t apply in the following situations.

• The profits interest relates to a substantially certain

and predictable stream of income from partnership assets, such as income from high-quality debt securities
or a high-quality net lease.

• Within 2 years of receipt, the partner disposes of the
profits interest.

• The profits interest is a limited partnership interest in a
publicly traded partnership.

A profits interest transferred as compensation for services is not subject to the rules for restricted property that
apply to capital interests.

Basis of Partner’s Interest
The basis of a partnership interest is the money plus the
adjusted basis of any property the partner contributed. If
the partner must recognize gain as a result of the contribution, this gain is included in the basis of their interest. Any
increase in a partner’s individual liabilities because of an
assumption of partnership liabilities is considered a contribution of money to the partnership by the partner.
Interest acquired by gift, etc. If a partner acquires an
interest in a partnership by gift, inheritance, or under any
circumstance other than by a contribution of money or
property to the partnership, the partner’s basis must be
determined using the basis rules described in Pub. 551.

Adjusted Basis
Tip: There is a worksheet for adjusting the basis of a partner’s interest in the partnership in the Partner’s Instructions for Schedule K-1 (Form 1065).
The basis of an interest in a partnership is increased or
decreased by certain items.

13

Increases. A partner’s basis is increased by the following
items.

• The partner’s additional contributions to the partner-

ship, including an increased share of, or assumption
of, partnership liabilities.

• The partner’s distributive share of taxable and nontaxable partnership income.

• The partner’s distributive share of the excess of the

deductions for depletion over the basis of the depletable property, unless the property is oil or gas wells
whose basis has been allocated to partners.

Decreases. The partner’s basis is decreased (but never
below zero) by the following items.

• The money (including a decreased share of partner-

ship liabilities or an assumption of the partner’s individual liabilities by the partnership) and adjusted basis
of property distributed to the partner by the partnership.

• The partner’s distributive share of the partnership losses (including capital losses).

• The partner’s distributive share of nondeductible part-

nership expenses that are not capital expenditures.
This includes the partner’s share of any section 179
expenses, even if the partner cannot deduct the entire
amount on their individual income tax return.

• The partner’s deduction for depletion for any partner-

ship oil and gas wells, up to the proportionate share of
the adjusted basis of the wells allocated to the partner.

• A partner’s distributive share of foreign taxes paid or

accrued by the partnership for tax years beginning after 2017.

• A partner’s distributive share of the adjusted basis of a
partnership’s property donation to charity.

Note: If the property’s FMV exceeds its adjusted basis,
a special rule provides that the basis limitation on partner
losses does not apply to the extent of the partner’s distributive share of the excess for tax years beginning after
2017.
Partner’s liabilities assumed by partnership. If contributed property is subject to a debt or if a partner’s liabilities are assumed by the partnership, the basis of that partner’s interest is reduced (but not below zero) by the
liability assumed by the other partners. This partner must
reduce their basis because the assumption of the liability
is treated as a distribution of money to that partner. The
other partners’ assumption of the liability is treated as a
contribution by them of money to the partnership. See Effect of Partnership Liabilities, later.
Example 1. Ivan acquired a 20% interest in a partnership by contributing property that had an adjusted basis to
him of $8,000 and a $4,000 mortgage. The partnership
assumed payment of the mortgage. The basis of Ivan’s interest is:

14

Adjusted basis of contributed property . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$8,000

Minus: Part of mortgage assumed by other partners (80%
(0.80) × $4,000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3,200

Basis of Ivan’s partnership interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$4,800

Example 2. If, in Example 1, the contributed property
had a $12,000 mortgage, the basis of Ivan’s partnership
interest would be zero. The $1,600 difference between the
mortgage assumed by the other partners, $9,600 (80% ×
$12,000), and his basis of $8,000 would be treated as
capital gain from the sale or exchange of a partnership interest. However, this gain wouldn’t increase the basis of
his partnership interest.
Book value of partner’s interest. The adjusted basis of
a partner’s interest is determined without considering any
amount shown in the partnership books as a capital,
equity, or similar account.
Example. Enzo contributes to his partnership property
that has an adjusted basis of $400 and an FMV of $1,000.
His partner contributes $1,000 cash. While each partner
has increased his capital account by $1,000, which will be
reflected in the partnership’s books, the adjusted basis of
Enzo’s interest is only $400 and the adjusted basis of his
partner’s interest is $1,000.
When determined. The adjusted basis of a partner’s
partnership interest is ordinarily determined at the end of
the partnership’s tax year. However, if there has been a
sale or exchange of all or part of the partner’s interest or a
liquidation of their entire interest in a partnership, the adjusted basis is determined on the date of sale, exchange,
or liquidation.
Alternative rule for figuring adjusted basis. In certain
cases, the adjusted basis of a partnership interest can be
figured by using the partner’s share of the adjusted basis
of partnership property that would be distributed if the
partnership terminated.
This alternative rule can be used in either of the following situations.

• The circumstances are such that the partner cannot
practicably apply the general basis rules.

• It is, in the opinion of the IRS, reasonable to conclude

that the result produced will not vary substantially from
the result under the general basis rules.

Adjustments may be necessary in figuring the adjusted
basis of a partnership interest under the alternative rule.
For example, adjustments would be required to include in
the partner’s share of the adjusted basis of partnership
property any significant discrepancies that resulted from
contributed property, transfers of partnership interests, or
distributions of property to the partners.

Effect of Partnership Liabilities
A partner’s basis in a partnership interest includes the
partner’s share of a partnership liability only if, and to the
extent that, the liability:
Publication 541 (12-2025)

1. Creates or increases the partnership’s basis in any of
its assets;
2. Gives rise to a current deduction to the partnership; or
3. Is a nondeductible, noncapital expense of the partnership.
The term “assets” in (1) includes capitalized items allocable to future periods, such as organization expenses.
A partner’s share of accrued but unpaid expenses or
accounts payable of a cash basis partnership is not included in the adjusted basis of the partner’s interest in the
partnership.
Partner’s basis increased. If a partner’s share of partnership liabilities increases or a partner’s individual liabilities increase because they assume partnership liabilities,
this increase is treated as a contribution of money by the
partner to the partnership.

• A person and a tax-exempt educational or charitable

organization controlled directly or indirectly by the person or by members of the person’s family.

• A corporation and a partnership if the same persons

own 80% or more in value of the outstanding stock of
the corporation and 80% or more of the capital or profits interest in the partnership.

• Two S corporations or an S corporation and a C corporation if the same persons own 80% or more in value
of the outstanding stock of each corporation.

• An executor and a beneficiary of an estate.
• A partnership and a person owning, directly or indi-

rectly, 80% or more of the capital or profits interest in
the partnership.

• Two partnerships if the same persons directly or indirectly own 80% or more of the capital or profits interests.

Partner’s basis decreased. If a partner’s share of partnership liabilities decreases or a partner’s individual liabilities decrease because the partnership assumes their individual liabilities, this decrease is treated as a distribution
of money to the partner by the partnership.

Property subject to a liability. If property contributed
to a partnership by a partner or distributed by the partnership to a partner is subject to a liability, the transferee is
treated as having assumed the liability to the extent it
doesn’t exceed the FMV of the property.

Assumption of liability. Generally, a partner or related
person is considered to assume a partnership liability only
to the extent that:

Partner’s share of recourse liabilities. A partnership liability is a recourse liability to the extent that any partner
or a related person, defined earlier under Related person,
has an economic risk of loss for that liability. A partner’s
share of a recourse liability equals their economic risk of
loss for that liability. A partner has an economic risk of loss
if that partner or a related person would be obligated
(whether by agreement or law) to make a net payment to
the creditor or a contribution to the partnership with respect to the liability if the partnership were constructively
liquidated. A partner who is the creditor for a liability that
would otherwise be a nonrecourse liability of the partnership has an economic risk of loss in that liability.

1. They’re personally liable for it,
2. The creditor knows that the liability was assumed by
the partner or related person,
3. The creditor can demand payment from the partner or
related person, and
4. No other partner or person related to another partner
will bear the economic risk of loss on that liability immediately after the assumption.
Related person. Related persons, for these purposes,
includes all the following.

• An individual and their spouse, ancestors, and lineal
descendants.

• An individual and a corporation if the individual directly
or indirectly owns 80% or more in value of the outstanding stock of the corporation.

• Two corporations that are members of the same controlled group.

• A grantor and a fiduciary of any trust.
• Fiduciaries of two separate trusts if the same person is
a grantor of both trusts.

• A fiduciary and a beneficiary of the same trust.
• A fiduciary and a beneficiary of two separate trusts if
the same person is a grantor of both trusts.

• A fiduciary of a trust and a corporation if the trust or

the grantor of the trust directly or indirectly owns 80%
or more in value of the outstanding stock of the corporation.

Publication 541 (12-2025)

Constructive liquidation. Generally, in a constructive
liquidation, the following events are treated as occurring at
the same time.

• All partnership liabilities become payable in full.
• All of the partnership’s assets have a value of zero, except for property contributed to secure a liability.

• All property is disposed of by the partnership in a fully
taxable transaction for no consideration except relief
from liabilities for which the creditor’s right to reimbursement is limited solely to one or more assets of
the partnership.

• All items of income, gain, loss, or deduction are allocated to the partners.

• The partnership liquidates.
Example. Juan and Teresa form a cash basis general
partnership with cash contributions of $20,000 each. Under the partnership agreement, they share all partnership
profits and losses equally. The partnership borrows
$60,000 and purchases depreciable business equipment.
15

This debt is included in the partners’ basis in the partnership because incurring it creates an additional $60,000 of
basis in the partnership’s depreciable property.
If neither partner has an economic risk of loss in the liability, it is a nonrecourse liability. Each partner’s basis
would include their share of the liability, $30,000.
If Teresa is required to pay the creditor if the partnership defaults, she has an economic risk of loss in the liability. Her basis in the partnership would be $80,000
($20,000 + $60,000), while Juan’s basis would be
$20,000.
Limited partner. A limited partner generally has no
obligation to contribute additional capital to the partnership and therefore doesn’t have an economic risk of loss
in partnership recourse liabilities. Thus, absent some
other factor, such as the guarantee of a partnership liability by the limited partner or the limited partner making the
loan to the partnership, a limited partner generally doesn’t
have a share of partnership recourse liabilities.
Partner’s share of nonrecourse liabilities. A partnership liability is a nonrecourse liability if no partner or related person has an economic risk of loss for that liability. A
partner’s share of nonrecourse liabilities is generally proportionate to their share of partnership profits. However,
this rule may not apply if the partnership has taken deductions attributable to nonrecourse liabilities or the partnership holds property that was contributed by a partner.
More information. For more information on the effect of
partnership liabilities, including rules for limited partners
and examples, see Regulations sections 1.752-1 through
1.752-5.

Disposition of Partner’s
Interest
The following discussions explain the treatment of gain or
loss from the disposition of an interest in a partnership.
Abandoned or worthless partnership interest. A loss
incurred from the abandonment or worthlessness of a
partnership interest is an ordinary loss only if both of the
following tests are met.

• The transaction is not a sale or exchange.
• The partner has not received an actual or deemed distribution from the partnership.

If the partner receives even a de minimis actual or
deemed distribution, the entire loss is generally a capital
loss. However, see Payments for Unrealized Receivables
and Inventory Items, later.
For information on how to report an abandonment loss,
see the Instructions for Form 4797, Sales of Business
Property. See Revenue Ruling 93-80 for more information
on determining if a loss incurred on the abandonment or
worthlessness of a partnership interest is a capital or an
ordinary loss.
16

Partnership election to adjust basis of partnership
property. Generally, a partnership’s basis in its assets is
not affected by a transfer of an interest in the partnership,
whether by sale or exchange or because of the death of a
partner. However, the partnership can elect to make an
optional adjustment to basis in the year of transfer.

Sale, Exchange, or Other Transfer
The sale or exchange of a partner’s interest in a partnership usually results in capital gain or loss. However, see
Payments for Unrealized Receivables and Inventory Items,
later, for certain exceptions. Gain or loss is the difference
between the amount realized and the adjusted basis of
the partner’s interest in the partnership. If the selling partner is relieved of any partnership liabilities, that partner
must include the liability relief as part of the amount realized for their interest.
Example 1. Kumar became a limited partner in the
ABC Partnership by contributing $10,000 in cash on the
formation of the partnership. The adjusted basis of his
partnership interest at the end of the current year is
$20,000, which includes his $15,000 share of partnership
liabilities. The partnership has no unrealized receivables
or inventory items. Kumar sells his interest in the partnership for $10,000 in cash. He had been paid his share of
the partnership income for the tax year.
Kumar realizes $25,000 from the sale of his partnership
interest ($10,000 cash payment + $15,000 liability relief).
He reports $5,000 ($25,000 realized − $20,000 adjusted
basis) as a capital gain.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that Kumar withdraws from the partnership when
the adjusted basis of his interest in the partnership is zero.
He is considered to have received a distribution of
$15,000, his relief of liability. He reports a capital gain of
$15,000.
Installment reporting for sale of partnership interest.
A partner who sells a partnership interest at a gain may be
able to report the sale on the installment method. For requirements and other information on installment sales,
see Pub. 537.
Part of the gain from the installment sale may be allocable to unrealized receivables or inventory items. See Payments for Unrealized Receivables and Inventory Items
next. The gain allocable to unrealized receivables and inventory items must be reported in the year of sale. The
gain allocable to the other assets can be reported under
the installment method.

Payments for Unrealized Receivables
and Inventory Items
If a partner receives money or property in exchange for
any part of a partnership interest, the amount due to their
share of the partnership’s unrealized receivables or inventory items results in ordinary income or loss. This amount

Publication 541 (12-2025)

is treated as if it were received for the sale or exchange of
property that is not a capital asset.
This treatment applies to the unrealized receivables
part of payments to a retiring partner or successor in interest of a deceased partner only if that part is not treated as
paid in exchange for partnership property. See Liquidation
at Partner’s Retirement or Death, later.
Unrealized receivables. Unrealized receivables include
any rights to payment not already included in income for
the following items.

Example. You are a partner in ABC Partnership. The
adjusted basis of your partnership interest at the end of
the current year is zero. Your share of potential ordinary income from partnership depreciable property is $5,000.
The partnership has no other unrealized receivables or inventory items. You sell your interest in the partnership for
$10,000 in cash and you report the entire amount as a
gain because your adjusted basis in the partnership is
zero. You report as ordinary income your $5,000 share of
potential ordinary income from the partnership’s depreciable property. The remaining $5,000 gain is a capital gain.

• Goods delivered or to be delivered to the extent the

Inventory items. Inventory items are not limited to
stock-in-trade of the partnership. They also include the following property.

• Services rendered or to be rendered.

• Property that would properly be included in the part-

payment would be treated as received for property
other than a capital asset.

These rights must have arisen under a contract or
agreement that existed at the time of sale or distribution,
even though the partnership may not be able to enforce
payment until a later date. For example, unrealized receivables include accounts receivable of a cash method partnership and rights to payment for work or goods begun but
incomplete at the time of the sale or distribution of the
partner’s share.
The basis for any unrealized receivables includes all
costs or expenses for the receivables that were paid or accrued but not previously taken into account under the partnership’s method of accounting.
Other items treated as unrealized receivables. Unrealized receivables include potential gain that would be
ordinary income if the following partnership property were
sold at its FMV on the date of the payment.

• Mining property for which exploration expenses were
deducted.

• Stock in a domestic international sales corporation
(DISC).

• Certain farmland for which expenses for soil and water
conservation or land clearing were deducted.

• Franchises, trademarks, or trade names.
• Oil, gas, or geothermal property for which intangible
drilling and development costs were deducted.

• Stock of certain controlled foreign corporations.
• Market discount bonds and short-term obligations.
• Property subject to recapture of depreciation under
sections 1245 and 1250. Depreciation recapture is
discussed in chapter 3 of Pub. 544.

Determining gain or loss. The income or loss realized by a partner upon the sale or exchange of its interest
in unrealized receivables and inventory items, discussed
below, is the amount that would have been allocated to
the partner if the partnership had sold all of its property for
cash at FMV, in a fully taxable transaction, immediately
prior to the partner’s transfer of interest in the partnership.
Any gain or loss recognized that is attributable to the unrealized receivables and inventory items will be ordinary
gain or loss.
Publication 541 (12-2025)

nership’s inventory if on hand at the end of the tax
year or that is held primarily for sale to customers in
the normal course of business.

• Property that, if sold or exchanged by the partnership,

wouldn’t be a capital asset or section 1231 property
(real or depreciable business property held more than
1 year). For example, accounts receivable acquired for
services or from the sale of inventory and unrealized
receivables are inventory items.

• Property held by the partnership that would be considered inventory if held by the partner selling the partnership interest or receiving the distribution.

Notification required of partner. If a partner exchanges
a partnership interest attributable to unrealized receivables or inventory for money or property, they must notify
the partnership in writing. This must be done within 30
days of the transaction or, if earlier, by January 15 of the
calendar year following the calendar year of the exchange.
A partner may be subject to a $50 penalty for each failure
to notify the partnership about such a transaction, unless
the failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.
Information return required of partnership. When a
partnership is notified of an exchange of partnership interests involving unrealized receivables or inventory items,
the partnership must file Form 8308, Report of a Sale or
Exchange of Certain Partnership Interests, with Parts I–IV
completed, as an attachment to its Form 1065. Form 8308
is filed with Form 1065 for the tax year that includes the
last day of the calendar year in which the exchange took
place. If notified of an exchange after filing Form 1065, the
partnership must file Form 8308 separately, within 30 days
of the notification.
All partnerships required to file Form 8308 must provide
Form 8308 with Parts I–III completed to each transferee
and transferor by the later of January 31 following the end
of the calendar year or 30 days after it receives notice of
the exchange.
The partnership may be subject to a penalty for each
failure to timely file Form 8308 and a penalty for each failure to furnish a copy of Form 8308 to a transferor or transferee, unless the failure is due to reasonable cause and
17

not willful neglect. If the failure is intentional, a higher penalty may be imposed. See sections 6721, 6722, 6723,
6724 and 6698 for details.
Statement required of partner. If a partner sells or exchanges any part of an interest in a partnership having unrealized receivables or inventory, they must file a statement with their tax return for the year in which the sale or
exchange occurs. The statement must contain the following information.

In general, any foreign person, any domestic partnership that has a foreign person as a direct partner, and any
domestic partnership that has actual knowledge that a foreign person indirectly holds, through one or more partnerships, an interest in the domestic partnership that transfers an interest in a partnership engaged in a U.S. trade or
business must notify the partnership of the transfer in writing within 30 days after the transfer. The notification must
include:

• The names and addresses of the notifying transferor

• The date of the sale or exchange.
• The amount of any gain or loss attributable to the un-

• The U.S. TIN of the notifying transferor and, if known,

• The amount of any gain or loss attributable to capital

• The date of the transfer.

realized receivables or inventory.

gain or loss on the sale of the partnership interest.

Partner’s disposition of distributed unrealized receivables or inventory items. In general, any gain or loss on
a sale or exchange of unrealized receivables or inventory
items a partner received in a distribution is an ordinary
gain or loss. For this purpose, inventory items do not include real or depreciable business property, even if they
are not held more than 1 year.
Example. Oscar, a distributee partner, received his
share of accounts receivable when his law firm dissolved.
The partnership used the cash method of accounting, so
the receivables had a basis of zero. If Oscar later collects
the receivables or sells them, the amount he receives will
be ordinary income.
Exception for inventory items held more than 5
years. If a distributee partner sells inventory items held
for more than 5 years after the distribution, the type of gain
or loss depends on how they are being used on the date
sold. The gain or loss is capital gain or loss if the property
is a capital asset in the partner’s hands at the time sold.
Example. Marucia receives, through dissolution of her
partnership, inventory that has a basis of $19,000. Within
5 years, she sells the inventory for $24,000. The $5,000
gain is taxed as ordinary income. If she had held the inventory for more than 5 years, her gain would have been
capital gain, provided the inventory was a capital asset in
her hands at the time of sale.
Substituted basis property. If a distributee partner
disposes of unrealized receivables or inventory items in a
nonrecognition transaction, ordinary gain or loss treatment
applies to a later disposition of any substituted basis property resulting from the transaction.
Foreign partner’s transfer of an interest in a partnership engaged in the conduct of a U.S. trade or business. Section 864(c)(8) requires a foreign partner that
transfers part or all of an interest in a partnership engaged
in the conduct of a trade or business in the United States
(U.S. trade or business) to include in income the effectively connected gain or loss from the transfer. A partnership distribution is considered a transfer when it results in
recognition of gain or loss. See Regulations section
1.731-1(a).
18

and the transferee or transferees;

of the transferee or transferees; and

This notification requirement does not apply to the
transfer of an interest in a publicly traded partnership if the
interest is publicly traded on an established securities
market or is readily tradable on a secondary market (or
the substantial equivalent thereof). It also does not apply
to a notifying transferor that is treated as transferring an interest in the partnership because it received a distribution
from the partnership. This notification may be combined
with or provided at the same time as the statement required of a partner that sells or exchanges any part of an
interest in a partnership having unrealized receivables or
inventory, provided that it satisfies the requirements of
both sections. For more information, see Regulations section 1.864(c)(8)-2.
To determine the amount of gain or loss described in
section 864(c)(8), generally, a foreign transferor must first
determine its outside gain or loss on the transfer of a partnership interest. For this purpose, outside gain or loss is
determined under all relevant provisions of the Code and
regulations thereunder. A foreign transferor may recognize
outside capital gain or loss and outside ordinary gain or
loss on the transfer of its partnership interest and must
separately apply section 864(c)(8) with respect to its capital gain or loss and its ordinary gain or loss.
The foreign transferor must compare the outside gain
or loss amounts with the relevant aggregate deemed sale
effectively connected gain or loss that the partnership calculates based on the foreign transferor’s distributive share
of gain or loss that would have been effectively connected
if the partnership had sold all of its assets at FMV. This information will be provided to the notifying transferor on or
before the due date (with extensions) for issuing Schedule K-1 (Form 1065). The foreign transferor only includes
in income the lower of the outside amount and the
deemed sale effectively connected amount. This determination is made separately with respect to capital gain or
loss and ordinary gain or loss. For example, a foreign
transferor would compare its outside ordinary gain to its
aggregate deemed sale effectively connected ordinary
gain, treating the former as effectively connected gain only
to the extent it does not exceed the latter. For more information, see Regulations section 1.864(c)(8)-1.

Publication 541 (12-2025)

Liquidation at Partner’s Retirement or
Death

and inventory items. No loss is recognized if any other
property is received. See Partner’s Gain or Loss under
Partnership Distributions, earlier.

Payments made by the partnership to a retiring partner or
successor in interest of a deceased partner in return for
the partner’s entire interest in the partnership may have to
be allocated between payments in liquidation of the partner’s interest in partnership property and other payments.
The partnership’s payments include an assumption of the
partner’s share of partnership liabilities treated as a distribution of money.

Other payments. Payments made by the partnership to
a retiring partner or successor in interest of a deceased
partner that are not made in exchange for an interest in
partnership property are treated as distributive shares of
partnership income or guaranteed payments. This rule applies regardless of the time over which the payments are
to be made. It applies to payments made for the partner’s
share of unrealized receivables and goodwill not treated
as a distribution.
If the amount is based on partnership income, the payment is taxable as a distributive share of partnership income. The payment retains the same character when reported by the recipient that it would have had if reported
by the partnership.
If the amount is not based on partnership income, it is
treated as a guaranteed payment. The recipient reports
guaranteed payments as ordinary income. For additional
information on guaranteed payments, see Transactions
Between Partnership and Partners, earlier.
These payments are included in income by the recipient for their tax year that includes the end of the partnership tax year for which the payments are a distributive
share or in which the partnership is entitled to deduct
them as guaranteed payments.
Former partners who continue to make guaranteed periodic payments to satisfy the partnership’s liability to a retired partner after the partnership is terminated can deduct
the payments as a business expense in the year paid.

For income tax purposes, a retiring partner or successor in interest of a deceased partner is treated as a partner until their interest in the partnership has been completely liquidated.
Liquidating payments. Payments made in liquidation of
the interest of a retiring or deceased partner in exchange
for their interest in partnership property are considered a
distribution, not a distributive share or guaranteed payment that could give rise to a deduction (or its equivalent)
for the partnership.
Unrealized receivables and goodwill. Payments
made for the retiring or deceased partner’s share of the
partnership’s unrealized receivables or goodwill are not
treated as made in exchange for partnership property if
both of the following tests are met.

• Capital is not a material income-producing factor for

the partnership. Whether capital is a material income-producing factor is explained under Partnership
Interests Created by Gift, earlier.

• The retiring or deceased partner was a general partner in the partnership.

However, this rule doesn’t apply to payments for goodwill
to the extent that the partnership agreement provides for a
reasonable payment to a retiring partner for goodwill.
Unrealized receivables include, to the extent not previously includible in income under the method of accounting
used by the partnership, any rights (contractual or otherwise) to payment for (1) goods delivered or to be delivered
to the extent the proceeds therefrom would be treated as
amounts received from the sale or exchange of property
other than a capital asset or (2) services rendered or to be
rendered.
Partners’ valuation. Generally, the partners’ valuation
of a partner’s interest in partnership property in an
arm’s-length agreement will be treated as correct. If the
valuation reflects only the partner’s net interest in the
property (total assets less liabilities), it must be adjusted
so that both the value of and the basis for the partner’s interest include the partner’s share of partnership liabilities.
Gain or loss on distribution. Upon the receipt of the
distribution, the retiring partner or successor in interest of
a deceased partner will recognize gain only to the extent
that any money (and marketable securities treated as
money) distributed is more than the partner’s adjusted basis in the partnership. The partner will recognize a loss
only if the distribution is in money, unrealized receivables,
Publication 541 (12-2025)

Section 1061 Reporting
Instructions
The instructions for owner taxpayer filing requirements
and pass-through entity filing and reporting requirements
are in accordance with Regulations section 1.1061-6. For
more information, see Treasury Decision 9945, 2021-5,
I.R.B. 627, available at IRS.gov/irb/2021-5_IRB#TD-9945,
for specific rules and definitions.

Pass-Through Entity Reporting to API
Holders
A pass-through entity is required to attach Worksheet A to
the API holder’s Schedule K-1 for tax returns filed after
December 31, 2021, in which a pass-through entity applies the final regulations under Treasury Decision 9945. A
pass-through entity means a partnership, trust, estate, S
corporation described in Regulations section 1.1061-3(b)
(2)(i), or a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) described in Regulations section 1.1061-3(b)(2)(ii). The
pass-through entity must provide the information in Worksheet A to each API holder, including owner taxpayer, as
an attachment to the Schedule K-1 for the applicable form,
noting the proper box and code. For the 2025 Form 1065,
it’s box 20, code AM. For the 2025 Form 1120-S, U.S.
19

Income Tax Return for an S Corporation, it’s box 17, code
ZZ. For the 2025 Form 1041, U.S. Income Tax Return for
Estates and Trusts, it’s box 14, code ZZ.

and Table 2 and must disclose whether the information
was determined under proposed regulations or another
method.

See Regulations section 1.1061-6(c) for the section
1061 reporting rules of a RIC and a REIT. In the case of
RICs and REITs, the information will be furnished in connection with the Form 1099-DIV, Dividends and Distributions.

Calculation and Reporting of
Recharacterization Amount by the Owner
Taxpayer

Regulations section 1.1061-6(d) permits a PFIC with
respect to which the shareholder is an API holder who has
a qualified electing fund election (as described in section
1295(a)) in effect for the tax year to provide additional information to the shareholder to determine the amount of
the shareholder’s inclusion that would be included in the
Section 1061 Worksheet A: API 1-Year Distributive Share
Amount and API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount. If the
PFIC furnishes this information to the shareholder, the
shareholder must retain a copy of this information along
with the other information required to be retained under
Regulations section 1.1295-1(f)(2)(ii).
A pass-through entity that is not required to and does
not choose to apply the final regulations to tax returns filed
after December 31, 2021, for a tax year beginning before
January 19, 2021, must attach a worksheet to the API
holder’s Schedule K-1 that contains similar information as
Worksheet A and must disclose whether the information
was determined under the proposed regulations or another method.

Calculation and Reporting for the API 1-Year
Distributive Share Amount and 3-Year
Distributive Share Amount by a
Pass-Through Entity
• Section 1061 Worksheet A.

Owner Taxpayer Calculation of
Amount Treated as Short-Term
Capital Gain Under Section 1061
An owner taxpayer is the person who is subject to federal
income tax on the recharacterization amount and could be
an individual, estate, or trust. An owner taxpayer uses information provided by all the pass-through entities in
which it holds an API, directly or indirectly, to determine
the amount that is recharacterized as short-term capital
gain under sections 1061(a) and (d) for a tax year. For tax
returns filed after December 31, 2021, in which an owner
taxpayer applies the final regulations under Treasury Decision 9945, Worksheet B must be used to determine the
amount of the owner taxpayer’s recharacterization
amount. Worksheet B, along with Table 1 and Table 2, are
to be attached to the owner taxpayer’s tax return.
An owner taxpayer that is not required to and does not
choose to apply the final regulations to tax returns filed after December 21, 2021, for a tax year beginning before
January 19, 2021, must attach worksheets to its return
that contain similar information as Worksheet B, Table 1,
20

• Section 1061 Worksheet B.
• Section 1061 Table 1: API 1-Year Disposition Amount.
• Section 1061 Table 2: API 3-Year Disposition Amount.

The Owner Taxpayer Reporting of the
Recharacterization Amount on
Schedule D (Form 1040) or
Schedule D (Form 1041) and on Form
8949
An owner taxpayer reports long- and short-term API gains
and losses on Schedule D (Form 1040) or Schedule D
(Form 1041) and on Form 8949, Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets, as if section 1061 does not apply.
In addition, if the owner taxpayer has a recharacterization
amount as computed on line 7 of Worksheet B, and/or any
amounts resulting from the application of section 1061(d)
(transfer of an API to a related person) on line 8 of Worksheet B (see Regulations section 1.1061-5(c)), the owner
taxpayer will increase the reported short-term capital gain
by listing as a transaction identified as “Section 1061 Adjustment” on Form 8949, Part I, line 1, column (a), and entering the amount from line 9 of Worksheet B as proceeds
(column (d) of Form 8949) and zero as basis (column (e)
of Form 8949). The owner taxpayer will make corresponding entries on Form 8949, Part II, line 1, to reduce the reported long-term capital gain by listing as a transaction
identified as “Section 1061 Adjustment” in column (a) of
Form 8949 and entering zero as proceeds (column (d) of
Form 8949) and the amount from line 9 of Worksheet B as
basis (column (e) of Form 8949).

The Owner Taxpayer Reporting of
Collectibles Gain and Unrecaptured
Section 1250 Gain
Pending further guidance, if the owner taxpayer sells an
API and recognizes collectibles gain or loss or unrecaptured section 1250 gain, or if a pass-through entity reports
that collectibles gain or loss or unrecaptured section 1250
gain is treated as API gain or loss, the owner taxpayer
must use a reasonable method to compute the amount of
the inclusion of collectibles gain and/or unrecaptured section 1250 gain in the recharacterization amount that is calculated in Worksheet B. If the owner taxpayer has received an API 1-year distributive share amount and an API
3-year distributive share amount that includes collectibles
gain or loss and/or unrecaptured section 1250 gain from a
pass-through entity, the owner taxpayer should include
those amounts on lines 1 and 4, respectively, of
Publication 541 (12-2025)

Worksheet B. If the owner taxpayer has received an API
1-year distributive share amount and an API 3-year distributive share amount that includes collectibles gain or loss
and/or unrecaptured section 1250 gain from a
pass-through entity, the owner taxpayer should include
those amounts on lines 1 and 4, respectively, of Worksheet B.
On line 10 of Worksheet B, the owner taxpayer must report the total amount of collectibles gains for the tax year
that the owner taxpayer has with respect to any interest in
a pass-through entity (pass-through interests) that it owns.
It must also report the amount of collectibles gain that is
recharacterized as short-term capital gain under section
1061 and the amount of collectibles gain that is not recharacterized and that is included in the 28% Rate Gain
Worksheet (see line 18 of Schedule D (Form 1040) or
line 18c of Schedule D (Form 1041)). Collectibles gain or
loss that is API gain or loss and is included in the calculation of the recharacterization amount but not recharacterized must be included in the 28% Rate Gain Worksheet.
Collectibles gain or loss with respect to a pass-through interest that is treated as capital interest gain or loss must
also be included in the 28% Rate Gain Worksheet.
Similarly, on line 11 of Worksheet B, the owner taxpayer
must report the total amount of unrecaptured section 1250
gain for the tax year that the owner taxpayer has with respect to any pass-through interests that it owns. It must
also report the amount of unrecaptured section 1250 gain
that is recharacterized as short-term capital gain under
section 1061 and the amount of unrecaptured section
1250 gain that is not recharacterized and that is included
in the Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain Worksheet (see
line 19 of Schedule D (Form 1040) or line 18b of Schedule D (Form 1041)). Unrecaptured section 1250 gain or
loss that is API gain or loss and is included in the calculation of the recharacterization amount but not recharacterized must be included in the Unrecaptured Section 1250
Gain Worksheet. Unrecaptured section 1250 gain or loss
with respect to a pass-through interest that is treated as
capital interest gain or loss must also be included in the
Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain Worksheet.
Reporting example for Worksheets A and B. Owner
Taxpayer M, an individual, holds an API in XYZ Partnership and receives a Schedule K-1 with Worksheet A attached from XYZ Partnership for the tax year 2024 that
contains a long-term capital gain of $55,000 in box 9a of
the Schedule K-1. Taxpayer M did not dispose of an API in
2024. The following is a summary of Worksheet A that
XYZ Partnership attached to Taxpayer M’s Schedule K-1:
line 4 has an API 1-year distributive share amount of
$55,000 and line 7 has an API 3-year distributive share
amount of $20,000.
Taxpayer M reports a $55,000 long-term capital gain
from XYZ Partnership on Schedule D (Form 1040),
line 12. Taxpayer M chose to follow the final regulations
under Treasury Decision 9945 in preparation of their 2024
tax return and prepares and attaches Worksheet B to their
Form 1040. Worksheet B has a 1-year gain amount on
line 3 of $55,000, a 3-year gain amount of $20,000 on
line 6, a recharacterization amount on line 7 of $35,000,
Publication 541 (12-2025)

and a section 1061 adjustment on line 9 of $35,000. In addition to reporting the long-term capital gain of $55,000 on
Schedule D (Form 1040), line 12, Taxpayer M reports on
Form 8949, Part I, line 1, a short-term capital gain of
$35,000, and on Part II, line 1, a long-term capital loss of
($35,000). Both Form 8949 items are described in column
(a) as “Section 1061 Adjustment.”

Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015
(BBA)
The BBA created a new centralized partnership audit regime effective for partnership tax years beginning after
2017. The new regime replaces the consolidated audit
proceedings under TEFRA and the electing large partnership provisions. The new audit regime applies to all partnerships unless the partnership is an eligible partnership
and elects out by making a valid election. See the Instructions for Form 1065 and go to IRS.gov/BBAPartnerships.

Role of Partnership Representative
Under the centralized partnership audit regime, partnerships are required to designate a partnership representative. The partnership representative will have the sole authority to act on behalf of the partnership under the
centralized partnership audit regime. The designated partnership representative is a partner or other person with
substantial presence in the United States. If the designated partnership representative is an entity, the partnership
must also appoint a designated individual to act on behalf
of the entity partnership representative. The partnership
must include information regarding the partnership representative and designated individual (if applicable) on Form
1065, Schedule B. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 1065.

Electing Out of the Centralized
Partnership Audit Regime
A partnership can elect out of the centralized partnership
audit regime for a tax year if the partnership is an eligible
partnership that year. A partnership is an eligible partnership for a tax year if it has 100 or fewer eligible partners. A
partner is an eligible partner if it is an individual, a C corporation, a foreign entity that would be treated as a C corporation if it were domestic, an S corporation, or an estate
of a deceased partner. The determination as to whether
the partnership has 100 or fewer partners is made by adding the number of Schedules K-1 required to be issued by
the partnership to the number of Schedules K-1 required
to be issued by any partner that is an S corporation to its
shareholders for the tax year of the S corporation ending
with or within the partnership tax year. A partnership is not
an eligible partnership if it is required to issue a Schedule K-1 to any of the following partners.

• A partnership.
21

• A trust.
• A foreign entity that would not be treated as a C corpo-

See the instructions for Form 8082 or 1065-X (as applicable) for the following.

• A disregarded entity described in Regulations section

allowable for the partnership to include in its calculation of an AAR imputed underpayment.

ration were it a domestic entity.
301.7701-2(c)(2)(i).

• An estate of an individual other than a deceased partner.

• Any person that holds an interest in the partnership on
behalf of another person. See the Instructions for
Form 1065 if electing out of the centralized partnership audit regime.

An annual election out of the centralized partnership
audit regime must be made on the eligible partnership’s
timely filed return, including extensions, for the tax year to
which the election applies. The election is made by including the following information on Schedule B-2 (Form 1065)
and filing with the tax return.

• The name of each partner.
• The TIN of each partner.
• The federal tax classification for each partner.
• If an S corporation is a partner, provide the names,

TINs, and federal tax classification of any shareholder
of the S corporation for the tax year of the S corporation ending with or within the partnership’s tax year.

This annual election once made may not be revoked
without the consent of the IRS. A partnership that elects
out of the centralized partnership audit regime must notify
each of its partners of the election within 30 days of making the election. By making the election out of the centralized partnership audit regime, you are affirming that all of
the partners in the partnership meet the eligibility requirements under section 6221(b)(1)(C) and you have provided
all of the required information with the Form 1065.

Administrative Adjustment Request
Rather than filing an amended return, a partnership that is
subject to the centralized partnership audit regime must
file an administrative adjustment request (AAR) to change
the amount or treatment of one or more partnership-related items. If filing electronically, file Form 8082, Notice of
Inconsistent Treatment or Administrative Adjustment Request (AAR), with a Form 1065 or Form 1065-X, Amended
Return or Administrative Adjustment Request (AAR).
AARs filed under the centralized partnership audit
regime. Partnerships subject to the centralized partnership audit regime and filing an AAR that results in an imputed underpayment and any interest or penalties related
to the imputed underpayment should report the imputed
underpayment and any related interest and penalties on
Form 1065 or 1065-X (as applicable). See the Instructions
for Form 1065.

22

• Information pertaining to certain modifications that are
• Information pertaining to the ability for the partnership
to make an election under section 6227(b)(2) to have
the adjustments of the AAR taken into account by the
reviewed year partners, rather than the partnership
making an imputed underpayment.

Partner amended return filed as part of modification
of the imputed underpayment during a BBA examination. Section 6225(c) allows a BBA partnership under examination to request specific types of modifications of any
imputed underpayment proposed by the IRS. One type of
modification (under section 6225(c)(2)) that may be requested is when one or more (reviewed year) partners file
amended returns for the tax years of the partners that include the end of the reviewed year of the BBA partnership
under examination and for any tax year with respect to
which tax attributes are affected. See the Instructions for
Form 8980.

How To Sign Documents on Behalf of
the Partnership
How To Sign Documents on Behalf of the Partnership
The following are examples of how a partnership representative (PR)
should sign documents on behalf of the partnership. The manner in
which the PR signs depends on whether the PR is an entity or an
individual. If the PR is an entity, the designated individual (DI) signs in
their capacity to act on behalf of that entity PR.
Designated
Signature as
Example
Partnership
Partnership
Representative (PR) Representative (PR)
Individual

Individual’s signature

John Smith, PR

Entity

Designated
individual’s (DI)
signature

Entity Name, PR, by
John Smith, DI

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
Publication 541 (12-2025)

other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Publication 541 (12-2025)

Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov,
you can get up-to-date information on current events and
changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Caution: Although the tax preparer always signs the return, you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare
your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on
the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns for others
should have a thorough understanding of tax matters. For
more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to
Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.
Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/Employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement, and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
23

The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English,
Spanish, and ASL.

• Youtube.com/IRSVideos.
• Youtube.com/IRSVideosMultilingua.
• Youtube.com/IRSVideosASL.
Online tax information in other languages. You can
find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t
your native language.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian,
and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You’ll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and in24

structions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.
Publication 541 (12-2025)

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
Caution: The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional
child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund,
not just the portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information
on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s

free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.

Publication 541 (12-2025)

What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.
Caution: It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you
filed your amended return for it to show up in our system,
and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able to use
the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information,
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and
appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the
Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and
click on “Local Offices.”
———————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.
25

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You

you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.

What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

How Do I Contact TAS?

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS. Our services are free.

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn’t working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help

26

Publication 541 (12-2025)

Section 1061 Worksheets and
Tables
Section 1061 Worksheet A
Section 1061 Worksheet A: API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount and API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount
(Completed by a pass-through entity that has issued an API and attached to the Schedule K-1.)

Pass-Through Entity Name
API Holder
Line

Description

EIN
SSN or TIN
API Gains and (Losses)*

1

Net long-term capital gain (loss) from Schedule K-1 (Form 1065),
$
box 9a; Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), box 8a; or Schedule K-1 (Form
1041), box 4a(a)

2

Capital gains or (losses) included in line 1 that are not subject to
section 1061 under Regulations section 1.1061-4(b)(7)

$

3

Capital interest gains or (losses) under Regulations section
1.1061-3(c)(2) included in line 1(b)

$

4

API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount
Subtract the sum of lines 2 and 3 from line 1.

$

5

Amounts included in line 4 that would not be treated as long-term
gain or (loss) if 3 years is substituted for 1 year under paragraphs (3)
and (4) of section 1222

$

6

Any Lookthrough Rule adjustment applicable to the disposition of an $
API by the pass-through entity under Regulations section 1.1061-4(b)
(9)(c)

7

API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount Gain or (Loss)
Subtract the sum of lines 5 and 6 from line 4.

$

* Gains are entered as positive and losses are entered as negative.
Calculation for collectibles gains or unrecaptured section 1250 gains. If a partnership, S corporation, estate, or trust has collectibles gain or loss or
unrecaptured section 1250 gain that is treated as API gain or loss, the pass-through entity must provide the API holder with information to determine whether
collectibles gain or unrecaptured section 1250 gain is recharacterized under section 1061. The pass-through entity must provide the API holder with information that
enables the API holder to separately determine its API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount and its API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount for its collectibles gain or loss
and/or its unrecaptured section 1250 gain. This information should be attached to Worksheet A.
(b)
Capital interest gains and losses. See Regulations section 1.1061-3(c)(2) for computation of capital interest gains and losses.
(c)
Lookthrough Rule information. See Regulations section 1.1061-4(b)(9) for computation of Lookthrough Rule amount adjustment.

(a)

Publication 541 (12-2025)

27

Section 1061 Worksheet B
Section 1061 Worksheet B: Owner Taxpayer Reporting of Recharacterization Amount
(The owner taxpayer must complete and attach to their return.)

Taxpayer Name
Line

SSN or TIN
Description

Gains and (Losses)*

1

API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount from Worksheet A, line 4,
which is attached to Schedule K-1.
Combined net amount from all APIs and increased by the API 1-Year
Distributive Share Amount of collectibles gain or loss and/or
unrecaptured section 1250 gain, if applicable.

$

2

API 1-Year Disposition Amount from Table 1, line 4.
Combined net amount from all APIs.

$

3

1-Year Gain Amount
Add lines 1 and 2. If the sum of line 1 plus line 2 is zero or less, enter
zero on line 3 and skip to line 8.

$

4

API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount from Worksheet A, line 7,
which is attached to the Schedule K-1.
Combined net amount from all APIs, increased by the amount of API
3-Year Distributive Share Amount of collectibles gain or loss and/or
recaptured section 1250 gain, if applicable.

$

5

API 3-Year Disposition Amount from Table 2, line 4.
Combined net amount for all APIs.

$

6

3-Year Gain Amount
Add lines 4 and 5. If the sum of line 4 plus line 5 is zero or less, enter
zero.

$

7

Recharacterization Amount (treat as short-term capital gain)
Subtract line 6 from line 3. If zero or less, enter zero.

$

8

Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount (as determined in
Regulations section 1.1061-5(c)).

$

9

Section 1061 Adjustment to Form 8949
Add lines 7 and 8. (This amount is an adjustment to increase
short-term capital gain and decrease long-term capital gain amounts
on Form 8949, Parts I and II. See The Owner Taxpayer Reporting of
the Recharacterization Amount on Schedule D for instructions on
how to report adjustments on tax return.)

$

10**

(a) Total collectibles gain with respect to any interest in a
pass-through entity (per Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), box 9b;
Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), box 8b; Schedule K-1 (Form 1041),
box 4b)

$

(b) Amount of collectibles gain included in the
recharacterization amount

$

(c) Amount of collectibles gain entered in the 28% Rate Gain
Worksheet (see line 18 of the Schedule D (Form 1040) or line 28c
of the Schedule D (Form 1041))

$

(a) Total unrecaptured section 1250 gain with respect to any
interest in a pass-through entity (per Schedule K-1 (Form 1065),
box 9c; Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), box 8c; Schedule K-1 (Form
1041), box 4c)

$

(b) Amount of unrecaptured section 1250 gain included in the
recharacterization amount

$

11***

(c) Amount of unrecaptured section 1250 gain entered in the
$
Unrecaptured Section 1250 Gain Worksheet (see line 19 of the
Schedule D (Form 1040) or line 18b of the Schedule D (Form 1041))
* Gains are entered as positive and losses are entered as negative.
** The sum of the amount entered on line 10(b) plus the amount entered on line 10(c) must equal the amount entered on line 10(a) (see The Owner Taxpayer
Reporting of Collectibles Gain and Unrecaptured Section 1250 for instructions on how to report adjustments on tax return).
*** The sum of the amount entered on line 11(b) plus the amount entered on line 11(c) must equal the amount entered on line 11(a) (see The Owner Taxpayer
Reporting of Collectibles Gain and Unrecaptured Section 1250 for instructions on how to report adjustments on tax return).

28

Publication 541 (12-2025)

Section 1061 Table 1
Section 1061 Table 1: API 1-Year Disposition Amount
(Separately computed for each API. Required to be attached to the owner taxpayer’s tax return.)

Name of Owner Taxpayer

SSN/TIN

Name of Pass-Through Entity

Pass-Through EIN

Line

Description

Gains and (Losses)*

1

Long-term capital gains and losses recognized on the disposition by
the owner taxpayer, including long-term capital gain computed under
the installment method that is taken into account during the tax year
of all or a portion of any API held for more than 1 year including a
disposition to which the Lookthrough Rule in Regulations section
1.1061-4(b)(9) applies.

$

2

Long-term capital gain and loss recognized by the owner taxpayer on
a disposition with respect to an API during the tax year that is treated
under section 731(a) as gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a
partnership interest held for more than 1 year.

$

3

Long-term capital gains and losses recognized by the owner taxpayer $
on the disposition of distributed API property (taking into account
deemed exchanges under section 751(b)) during the tax year that has
a holding period of more than 1 year but not more than 3 years to the
distributee owner taxpayer on the date of disposition, excluding items
described in Regulations section 1.1061-4(b)(7).

4

API 1-Year Distributive Share Amount
Combine lines 1 through 3. Enter amount on line 2 of Worksheet B.

$

* Gains are entered as positive and losses are entered as negative.

Section 1061 Table 2
Section 1061 Table 2: API 3-Year Disposition Amount
(Separately computed for each API. Required to be attached to the owner taxpayer’s tax return.)

Name of Owner Taxpayer

SSN/TIN

Name of Pass-Through Entity

Pass-Through EIN

Line

Gains and (Losses)*

Description
1

Long-term capital gains and losses recognized on the disposition by $
the owner taxpayer, including long-term capital gain computed under
the installment method that is taken into account for the tax year of all
or a portion of any API held for more than 3 years and to which the
Lookthrough Rule in Regulations section 1.1061-4(b)(9) does not
apply.

2

Long-term capital gains and losses recognized by an owner taxpayer
on the disposition during the tax year of all or a portion of an API that
has been held for more than 3 years in a transaction to which the
Lookthrough Rule in Regulations section 1.1061-4(b)(9) applies, less
any adjustments required under the Lookthrough Rule in Regulations
section 1.1061-4(b)(9)(ii).

$

3

Long-term capital gains and losses recognized on a distribution with
respect to an API during the tax year that is treated under section
731(a) as gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a partnership
interest held for more than 3 years.

$

4

API 3-Year Distributive Share Amount
Combine lines 1 through 3. Enter amount on line 5 of Worksheet B.

$

* Gains are entered as positive and losses are entered as negative.

Publication 541 (12-2025)

29

Other Useful Forms for Partnerships

Form, Return, or Statement

Use this to—

W-2 and W-3—Wage and Tax Statement; and Transmittal
of Wage and Tax Statements

Report wages, tips, other compensation, and withheld income, social security, and
Medicare taxes for employees.

720—Quarterly Federal Excise Tax Return

Report and pay environmental excise taxes, communications and air transportation
taxes, fuel taxes, manufacturers taxes, ship passenger tax, and certain other excise
taxes.

940—Employer’s Annual Federal Unemployment (FUTA)
Tax Return

Report and pay FUTA tax.

941—Employer’s QUARTERLY Federal Tax Return

Report quarterly income tax withheld on wages and employer and employee social
security and Medicare taxes.

943—Employer’s Annual Federal Tax Return for
Agricultural Employees

Report income tax withheld and employer and employee social security and Medicare
taxes on farmworkers.

944—Employer’s ANNUAL Federal Tax Return

File annual Form 944 instead of filing quarterly Forms 941 if the IRS notified you in
writing.

945—Annual Return of Withheld Federal Income Tax

Report income tax withheld from nonpayroll payments, including pensions, annuities,
individual retirement accounts (IRAs), gambling winnings, and backup withholding.

1042 and 1042-S—Annual Withholding Tax Return for U.S. Report tax withheld on payments or distributions made to nonresident alien individuals,
Source Income of Foreign Persons; and Foreign Person’s
foreign partnerships, or foreign corporations to the extent these payments or
U.S. Source Income Subject to Withholding
distributions constitute gross income from sources within the United States that isn’t
effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business. A domestic partnership must also
withhold tax on a foreign partner’s distributive share of such income, including amounts
that aren’t actually distributed. Withholding on amounts not previously distributed to a
foreign partner must generally be made and paid over by the earlier of:
• The date on which Schedules K-1 and K-3 are sent to that partner, or
• The 15th day of the 3rd month after the end of the partnership’s tax year.
These forms are also used to report tax withheld on distributions of effectively
connected taxable income (ECTI) made by publicly traded partnerships (PTPs) and
certain transfers of interests in PTPs. For more details, see the instructions for Forms
1042 and 1042-S and Pub. 515, Withholding of Tax on Nonresident Aliens and Foreign
Entities.
1042-T—Annual Summary and Transmittal of Forms
1042-S

Transmit paper Forms 1042-S to the IRS.

1065-X—Amended Return or Administrative Adjustment
Request (AAR)

Use Form 1065-X to correct a previously filed partnership return or to make an AAR for
a previously filed return.

1095-B and 1094-B—Health Coverage; and Transmittal of
Health Coverage Information Returns

Required to be filed by certain health insurance issuers and others who provide
minimum essential coverage to report information on the primary insured and other
individuals covered under the plan.

1095-C and 1094-C—Employer-Provided Health
Insurance Offer and Coverage; and Transmittal of
Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer and Coverage
Information Returns

Used by certain employers to report information about the health care coverage the
employer offered with regard to each full-time employee.

1096—Annual Summary and Transmittal of U.S.
Information Returns

Transmit paper Forms 1097, 1098, 1099, 3921, 3922, 5498, and W-2G to the IRS.

1097-BTC—Bond Tax Credit

Report tax credits to bond holders and tax credits passed to another person.

1098—Mortgage Interest Statement

Report the receipt from any individual of $600 or more of mortgage interest (including
certain points) in the course of the partnership’s trade or business.

30

Publication 541 (12-2025)

Form, Return, or Statement

Use this to—

1099-A, B, C, INT, K, LS, LTC, MISC, NEC, OID, R, S, and Report the following.
SA.
• Acquisitions or abandonments of secured property.
• Proceeds from broker and barter exchange transactions.
Important. Every partnership must file Forms 1099-MISC
• Cancellation of debts.
or 1099-NEC if, in the course of its trade or business, it
• Interest income.
makes payments of rents, commissions, or other fixed or
• Payment card and third-party network transactions.
determinable income (see section 6041) totaling $600 or
• Acquisition of a life insurance contract, or interest therein, in a reportable policy
more to any one person during the calendar year.
sale.
• Payments of long-term care and accelerated death benefits.
• Miscellaneous income.
• Nonemployee compensation
• Original issue discount.
• Distributions from pensions, annuities, retirement or profit-sharing plans, IRAs,
insurance contracts, etc.
• Proceeds from real estate transactions.
• Distributions from an HSA, Archer MSA, or Medicare Advantage MSA.
5471—Information Return of U.S. Persons With Respect to A partnership may have to file Form 5471 if it:
Certain Foreign Corporations
• Controls a foreign corporation,
• Acquires or owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power or value of
shares of all classes of stock, or
• Disposes of sufficient stock to reduce its interest to less than 10% of the total
combined voting power or value of shares of all classes of stock.
5713—International Boycott Report

Report operations in, or related to, a boycotting country, company, or national of a
country and to figure the loss of certain tax benefits. The partnership must give each
partner a copy of the Form 5713 filed by the partnership if there has been participation
in, or cooperation with, an international boycott.

8275—Disclosure Statement

Disclose items or positions, except those contrary to a regulation, that aren’t otherwise
adequately disclosed on a tax return. The disclosure is made to avoid the parts of the
accuracy-related penalty imposed for disregard of rules or substantial understatement
of tax. Also use Form 8275 for disclosures relating to preparer penalties for
understatements due to unrealistic positions or disregard of rules.

8275-R—Regulation Disclosure Statement

Disclose any item on a tax return for which a position has been taken that is contrary to
Treasury regulations.

8288, 8288-A, and 8288-C—U.S. Withholding Tax Return
for Certain Dispositions by Foreign Persons; Statement of
Withholding on Certain Dispositions by Foreign Persons;
and Statement of Withholding Under Section 1446(f)(4) on
Dispositions by Foreign Persons of Partnership Interests

Report and send withheld tax on the sale of U.S. real property or the transfer of certain
partnership interests by a foreign person. See sections 1445 and 1446(f), and the
related regulations, for additional information.

8300—Report of Cash Payments Over $10,000 Received
in a Trade or Business

Report the receipt of more than $10,000 in cash or foreign currency in one transaction
or a series of related transactions.

8308—Report of a Sale or Exchange of Certain
Partnership Interests

Report the sale or exchange by a partner of all or part of a partnership interest where
any money or other property received in exchange for the interest is attributable to
unrealized receivables or inventory items.

8594—Asset Acquisition Statement Under Section 1060

Report a sale of assets if goodwill or going concern value attaches, or could attach, to
such assets. Both the seller and buyer of a group of assets that makes up a trade or
business must use this form.

8621—Information Return by a Shareholder of a Passive
Foreign Investment Company or Qualified Electing Fund

Report an ownership interest in, make elections for, and compute inclusions with
respect to passive foreign investment companies and qualified electing funds.

8697—Interest Computation Under the Look-Back Method Figure the interest due or to be refunded under the look-back method of section 460(b)
for Completed Long-Term Contracts
(2) on certain long-term contracts that are accounted for under either the percentage of
completion-capitalized cost method or the percentage of completion method.
Partnerships that aren’t closely held use this form.
8804, 8805, and 8813—Annual Return for Partnership
Withholding Tax (Section 1446); Foreign Partner’s
Information Statement of Section 1446 Withholding Tax;
and Partnership Withholding Tax Payment Voucher
(Section 1446)

Use Forms 8804 and 8805 to figure and report the withholding tax on foreign partners’
allocable shares of ECTI. Form 8804 must also be filed to report effectively connected
gross income allocable to foreign partners even if the partnership has no ECTI on
which to withhold. Use Form 8813 to send installment payments of withheld tax based
on ECTI allocable to foreign partners.
Exception: PTPs don’t file these forms. They must instead withhold tax on distributions
to foreign partners and report and send payments using Forms 1042 and 1042-S. See
Regulations section 1.1446-4 for more information.

8832—Entity Classification Election

Publication 541 (12-2025)

31

Form, Return, or Statement

Use this to—

8865—Return of U.S. Persons With Respect to Certain
Foreign Partnerships

Report the information required under section 6038 (reporting with respect to controlled
foreign partnerships), section 6038B (reporting of transfers to foreign partnerships),
section 6046A (reporting of acquisitions, dispositions, and changes in foreign
partnership interests), or section 721(c) (reporting related to the application of the gain
deferral method). See Form 8865 and its instructions for more details.

8866—Interest Computation Under the Look-Back Method Figure the interest due or to be refunded under the look-back method of section 167(g)
for Property Depreciated Under the Income Forecast
(2) for certain property placed in service after September 13, 1995, depreciated under
Method
the income forecast method. Partnerships that aren’t closely held use this form.
8876—Excise Tax on Structured Settlement Factoring
Transactions

Report and pay the 40% excise tax imposed under section 5891.

8886—Reportable Transaction Disclosure Statement

Disclose information for each reportable transaction in which the partnership
participated. Form 8886 must be filed for each tax year the partnership participated in
the reportable transaction. The partnership may have to pay a penalty if it’s required to
file Form 8886 and doesn’t do so. The following are reportable transactions.
• Any listed transaction, that is a transaction that is the same as or substantially
similar to one of the types of transactions that the IRS has determined to be a tax
avoidance transaction and identified by notice, regulation, or other published
guidance as a listed transaction.
• Any transaction offered under conditions of confidentiality for which the
partnership (or a related party) paid an adviser a fee of at least $50,000 ($250,000
for partnerships if all partners are corporations).
• Certain transactions for which the partnership (or a related party) has contractual
protection against disallowance of the tax benefits.
• Certain transactions resulting in a loss of at least $2 million in any single year or $4
million in any combination of years.
• Any transaction of interest, which is a transaction that is the same as, or
substantially similar to, one of the types of transactions identified by the IRS by
notice, regulation, or other published guidance. See Notice 2009-55, 2009-31
I.R.B. 170.
See Regulations section 1.6011-4, the Instructions for Form 8886, for more information.

8918—Material Advisor Disclosure Statement

Material advisors to any reportable transaction must disclose certain information about
the reportable transaction by filing a Form 8918 with the IRS. See Form 8918 and its
instructions for more details.

8925—Report of Employer-Owned Life Insurance
Contracts

Report the number of employees covered by employer-owned life insurance contracts
issued after August 17, 2006, and the total amount of employer-owned life insurance in
force on those employees at the end of the tax year.

8990—Limitation on Business Interest Expense Under
Section 163(j)

Business interest expense may be limited. See section 163(j) and Form 8990 and its
instructions. Also see Schedule B, questions 23 and 24, and the related instructions.

8994—Employer Credit for Paid Family and Medical Leave

Report if the partnership has a credit for paid family and medical leave. See the
Instructions for Form 8994 for more information.

8996—Qualified Opportunity Fund

Certify that the requirements to be a QOF investing in qualified opportunity zone
property, as defined in section 1400Z-2, have been fulfilled. Entities attaching Form
8996 must also complete Form 1065, Schedule B, question 25. For more information,
see the Instructions for Form 8996.

32

Publication 541 (12-2025)

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

Definition, partnership 2
Determining ownership 11
Distributions:
Gain or loss 6
Partner’s debt 7
Partnership 6
Distributive share:
Adjusted basis 13
Guaranteed payments 10

Basis 13
Basis adjustments 13
Book value 14
Gift 3, 13
G
Liquidation of 8, 19
Mandatory basis adjustment 9
Guaranteed payments 10
Performance of services 3
H
Sale, exchange, transfer 16
Special basis adjustment 9
How to sign documents on behalf
of the partnership 22
Transactions with partnership 10
Partnership:
I
Abandoned or worthless interest 16
Insurance, self-employed health 10
Agreement 4
Inventory items, substantially
Basis, contributed property 12
appreciated 6
Defined 2
Exclusion from rules 5
L
Forming 2
Liability:
Liabilities 14
Assumption of 15
Terminating 5
Partner’s assumed by
Transactions with partner 10
partnership 14
Precontribution gain 7
Partnership’s 14
Profits interest 13
Limited liability company 3
Publications (See Tax help)
Liquidation:
Constructive 15
S
Partner’s interest 8
Section 1061 3, 19
Partner’s retirement or death 19
Section 1061 Worksheets and
Losses:
Tables 27
Sales or exchanges 11
Self-employed health insurance 10
Short period return 5
M
Substantially appreciated inventory
items 6
Marketable securities 7

E

P

A

Allocations:
Built-in gain or loss 12
Installment sale 16
Assistance (See Tax help)

B

Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015
(BBA) 21
Built-in gain or loss 12

C

Capital interest 13
Contribution:
Basis of property 12
Built-in gain or loss 12
Distribution of property 12
Net precontribution gain 7
Property 11
Services 13

D

Electronic filing 5

F

Form:
8275 12
8308 17
8832 3

Publication 541 (12-2025)

8865 12
Forms:
That may be required 30

Partner’s:
Basis:
Distributed property 8
Partnership interest 13
Interest:
Alternative rule, adjusted
basis 14

T

Tax help 22
Tax withholding, foreign partner of
firm 1
Terminating a partnership 5

U

Unrealized receivables 17

33

