Publication 557

Contents

Tax-Exempt
Status for Your
Organization

What's New

(Rev. January 2025)

.................. 2

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Chapter 1. Application, Approval,
and Appeal Procedures . . . . . . . . 4
Application Procedures . . . . . . . . . 4
Forms Required . . . . . . . . . . 4
Required Information and
Documents . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Miscellaneous Procedures . . . . 6
Determination Letters . . . . . . . . . . 6
Effective Date of Exemption . . . . 6
Revocation of Exemption . . . . . 6
Appeal Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Independent Office of
Appeals Consideration . . . . 7
Administrative Remedies . . . . . 7
Appeal to Courts . . . . . . . . . . 8
Group Exemption Letter . . . . . . . . . 8
Central Organization
Application Procedure . . . . . 8
Keeping the Group
Exemption Letter in
Force . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Events Causing Loss of
Group Exemption . . . . . . . . 9
Chapter 2. Filing Requirements
and Required Disclosures . . . . .
Annual Information Returns . . . . . .
Unrelated Business Income Tax
Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employment Tax Returns . . . . . . .
Political Organization Income
Tax Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reporting Requirements for a
Political Organization . . . . . . . .
Donee Information Return . . . . . . .
Information Provided to Donors . . . .
Report of Cash Received . . . . . . .
Public Inspection of Exemption
Applications, Annual
Returns, and Political
Organization Reporting
Forms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Required Disclosures . . . . . . . . .
Solicitation of
Nondeductible
Contributions . . . . . . . . .
Sales of Information or
Services Available Free
from Government . . . . . . .
Dues Used for Lobbying or
Political Activities . . . . . . .
Miscellaneous Rules . . . . . . . . . .
Organizational Changes
and Exempt Status . . . . . .
Modify or Obtain an NTEE
Code. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Feb 26, 2025

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Chapter 3. Section 501(c)(3)
Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contributions to 501(c)(3)
Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . .
Application for Recognition of
Exemption . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Articles of Organization . . . . . . . .

Publication 557 (Rev. 1-2025) Catalog Number 46573C
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

10
11
13
13
14
14
16
16
18

18
20
20
21
21
21
21
22
22
22
23
25

Educational Organizations and
Private Schools . . . . . . . . . . .
Organizations Providing
Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other Section 501(c)(3)
Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . .
Private Foundations and Public
Charities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lobbying Expenditures . . . . . . . .
Chapter 4. Other Section 501(c)
Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(4) - Civic Leagues and
Social Welfare Organizations . . .
501(c)(5) - Labor, Agricultural,
and Horticultural
Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(6) - Business Leagues,
etc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(7) - Social and
Recreation Clubs . . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(8) and 501(c)(10) Fraternal Beneficiary
Societies and Domestic
Fraternal Societies . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(4), 501(c)(9), and 501(c)
(17) - Employees'
Associations . . . . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(12) - Local Benevolent
Life Insurance Associations,
Mutual Irrigation and
Telephone Companies, and
Like Organizations . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(13) - Cemetery
Companies . . . . . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(14) - Credit Unions and
Other Mutual Financial
Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(19) - Veterans'
Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(21) - Black Lung Benefit
Trusts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(2) - Title-Holding
Corporations for Single
Parent Corporations . . . . . . . .
501(c)(25) - Title-Holding
Corporations or Trusts for
Multiple Parent Corporations . . .
501(c)(26) - State-Sponsored
High-Risk Health Coverage
Organizations . . . . . . . . . . . .
501(c)(27) - Qualified
State-Sponsored Workers'
Compensation Organizations . . .
501(c)(29) - CO-OP Health
Insurance Issuers . . . . . . . . .
Chapter 5. Excise Taxes . . . . . . . . .
Prohibited Tax Shelter
Transactions . . . . . . . . . . . .
Excess Benefit Transactions . . . . .
Excess Business Holdings . . . . . .
Taxable Distributions of
Sponsoring Organizations . . . . .
Taxes on Prohibited Benefits
Resulting from Donor
Advised Fund Distributions . . . .
Excise Taxes on Private
Foundations . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Excise Taxes on Black Lung
Benefit Trusts . . . . . . . . . . . .
Excise Tax on Failure To Meet
the Community Health
Needs Assessment
Requirements . . . . . . . . . . .
2

26
28
28
30
46
48

Excise Tax on Executive
Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Excise Tax on Net Investment
Income of Certain Colleges
and Universities . . . . . . . . . . 65
How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Organization Reference Chart . . . . . . 69
Appendix. Sample Articles of
Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

48

Appendix. Sample Articles of
Organization, continued . . . . . . . 72

49

Index

49
50

51
52

53

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75

What's New
Future developments. The IRS has created a
page on IRS.gov for information about Publication 557, at IRS.gov/Pub557. Information about
any future developments affecting Publication
557 (such as legislation enacted after we release it) will be posted on that page.
Continuous-use publication. Publication 557
has been converted from an annual revision to
continuous use. Use these instructions for tax
year 2024 and subsequent years until a superseding revision is issued.

55
56
56
57
57
58
58
59
59
59
60
60
63
64
65
65
65

65

Reminders
Electronic Form 1024. As of January 3, 2022,
Form 1024, Application for Recognition of Exemption Under Section 501(a) or Section 521,
must be submitted for electronic filing on
Pay.gov. As part of the revision, applications for
recognition of exemption under Sections 501(c)
(11), (14), (16), (18), (21), (22), (23), (26), (27),
(28), (29), and 501(d) can no longer be submitted as letter applications. Instead, these requests must be made on the electronic Form
1024.
Also, organizations requesting determinations under Section 521 are now able to use the
electronic Form 1024 instead of Form 1028, Application for Recognition of Exemption Under
Section 521.
Update on mandatory e-filing. The Taxpayer
First Act, enacted July 1, 2019, requires tax-exempt organizations to electronically file information returns and related forms. The new law affects tax-exempt organizations in tax years
beginning after July 1, 2019.
• Forms 990-T and 4720 are available for
e-filing in 2022. In 2020, the IRS continued to accept paper Form 990-T, Exempt
Organization Business Income Tax Return,
and Form 4720, Return of Certain Excise
Taxes Under Chapters 41 and 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, pending conversion
into electronic format. As described below,
in 2021, the IRS announced e-filing is required for these forms.
For Form 990-T, any 2020, and any future year Form 990-T with a due date on or
after April 15, 2021, must be filed electronically and not on paper.

For Form 4720, any 2020, and any future year, Form 4720 filed by a private
foundation with a due date on or after July
15, 2021, must be filed electronically and
not on paper. Organizations other than private foundations that are required to file
Form 4720 are encouraged, but not required, to file Form 4720 electronically.
• Forms 990, 990-EZ, and 990-PF e-filing.
Form 990, Return of Organization Exempt
From Income Tax, and Form 990-PF, Return of Private Foundation or Section
4947(a)(1) Trust Treated as Private Foundation, for tax years ending July 31, 2020,
and later MUST be filed electronically.
Form 990-EZ, Short Form Return of Organizations Exempt from Income Tax, for
tax years ending July 31, 2021, and later
MUST be filed electronically. The transitional relief applicable to the Form 990-EZ
under which the IRS accepted either paper
or electronic filing of Form 990-EZ applied
only for tax years ending before July 31,
2021.
More information on software providers
is available on the Exempt Organizations
Modernized e-File (MeF) Providers page.
For more information, go to IRS: Recent
legislation
requires
tax
exempt
organizations to e-file forms.
Section 501(c)(21) trusts. Form 990-BL, Information and Initial Excise Tax Return for Black
Lung Benefit Trusts and Certain Related Persons, will be a historical form beginning with tax
year 2021. Section 501(c)(21) trusts can no longer file Form 990-BL and will file Form 990 (or
submit Form 990-N, if eligible) to meet their annual filing obligations under section 6033. Some
section 501(c)(21) trusts may also be required
to file Form 6069, Return of Certain Excise
Taxes on Mine Operators, Black Lung Trusts,
and Other Persons Under Sections 4951, 4952,
and 4953.
Reporting of donor information (Form 990,
990-EZ, and 990-PF). Final regulations provide that the requirement to report contributor
names and addresses on annual returns generally applies only to returns filed by Section
501(c)(3) organizations and Section 527 political organizations. All tax-exempt organizations
must continue to maintain the names and addresses of their substantial contributors in their
books and records.
IRS not accepting requests for group exemption numbers. The IRS will not accept
any requests for group exemption letters starting on June 17, 2020, until publication of the final revenue procedure or other guidance in the
Internal Revenue Bulletin. See Notice 2020-36.
Automatic revocation. Regarding automatic
revocation for the failure to file a return or notice
for 3 consecutive years, as required by section
6033, the Taxpayer First Act of 2019, P.L.
116-25, added a requirement that the IRS notify
the organization after the organization has failed
to file for 2 consecutive years. See Automatic
Revocation, later, for more information, including applicability dates.
Electronic Form 1023. Form 1023, Application for Recognition of Exemption under Section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, is available only as an electronic form filed on Pay.gov.
Publication 557 (1-2025)

Form 1023-EZ, Streamlined Application, is already on Pay.gov.
Tax on investment income of private foundations. The Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster
Tax Relief Act of 2019, reduced the 2% excise
tax on investment income of private foundations
to 1.39%. At the same time, the legislation repealed the 1% special rate that applied if the
private foundation met certain distribution requirements. The change is effective for taxable
years beginning after December 20, 2019.
Increase in UBTI for disallowed fringe repealed. The Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster
Tax Relief Act of 2019 retroactively repealed Internal Revenue Code Section 512(a)(7), which
increased unrelated business taxable income
by amounts paid or incurred for qualified transportation fringes. Congress had previously
enacted this provision for amounts paid or incurred after December 31, 2017.
Excise tax on executive compensation.
Section 4960, added by P.L. 115-97, effective
for tax years beginning after December 17,
2017, imposes an excise tax on an organization
that pays to any covered employee more than
$1 million in remuneration or pays an excess
parachute payment during the year starting in
2018. See Excise Tax on Executive Compensation, chapter 5. See also section 4960 and Form
4720, Return of Certain Excise Taxes Under
Chapters 41 and 42 of the Internal Revenue
Code, for more information.
Excise tax on net investment income of certain colleges and universities. Section 4968
imposes an excise tax on the net investment income of certain private colleges and universities. See Excise Tax on Net Investment Income
of Certain Colleges and Universities, chapter 5.
See also section 4968 and Form 4720, Return
of Certain Excise Taxes Under Chapters 41 and
42 of the Internal Revenue Code, for more information.
Separate UBTI calculation for each trade or
business. Organizations with more than one
unrelated trade or business must compute unrelated business taxable income (UBTI), including
for purposes of determining any net operating
loss deduction, separately with respect to each
such trade or business. See Unrelated Business Income Tax Return, chapter 2. See also
Schedule A (Form 990-T). The UBTI with respect to any such trade or business shall not be
less than zero when computing total UBTI.
Exception from the excise tax on excess
business holdings. Section 4943(g) created
an exception from the excise tax on excess
business holdings for certain independently operated enterprises whose voting stock is wholly
owned by a private foundation. For more details,
see Excess Business Holdings, chapter 5.
Organizational changes. For tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018, the IRS will no
longer require a new exemption application from
a domestic section 501(c) organization that undergoes certain changes of form or place of organization, as described in Rev. Proc. 2018-15,
2018-9 I.R.B. 379.
Group exemptions. Beginning January 2019,
the IRS will no longer send the List of Parent
and Subsidiary Accounts to the central organizations. See Group Exemption Letter, later.
Publication 557 (1-2025)

Form 8976. Each new section 501(c)(4) organization must notify the IRS of its intent to operate as a section 501(c)(4) organization regardless of whether it will seek recognition of its
exempt status under section 501(c)(4). Use
Form 8976, Notice of Intent to Operate Under
Section 501(c)(4), to provide this notification.
Form 8976 may only be completed and submitted electronically at: Electronically Submit Your
Form 8976, Notice of Intent to Operate Under
Section 501(c)(4).
Forms, instructions, and publications. All
IRS forms, instructions and publications mentioned in this publication can be accessed on
IRS.gov from the Forms and Instructions page.

Introduction
This publication discusses the rules and procedures for organizations that seek recognition of
exemption from federal income tax under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the
Code). It explains the procedures you must follow to obtain an appropriate determination letter
recognizing your organization's exemption, as
well as certain other information that applies
generally to all exempt organizations. To qualify
for exemption under the Code, your organization must be organized for one or more of the
purposes specifically designated in the Code.
Organizations that are exempt under section
501(a) include those organizations described in
section 501(c). Section 501(c) organizations
are covered in this publication.
Chapter 1, Application, Approval, and Appeal Procedures, provides general information
about the procedures for obtaining recognition
of tax-exempt status.
Chapter 2, Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures, contains information about
annual filing requirements and other matters
that may affect your organization's tax-exempt
status.
Chapter 3, Section 501(c)(3) Organizations,
contains detailed information on various matters
affecting section 501(c)(3) organizations, including a section on the determination of private
foundation status.
Chapter 4, Other Section 501(c) Organizations, includes separate sections for specific
types of organizations described in section
501(c).
Chapter 5, Excise Taxes, provides information on when excise taxes may be imposed.
Chapter 6, How to Get Tax Help, provides
tips and resources on where to find answers to
tax questions or other assistance.
Organizations not discussed in this publication. Certain organizations that may qualify
for exemption aren't discussed in detail in this
publication, although they are included in the
Organization Reference Chart and the application procedures discussed in Chapter 1. These
organizations (and the Code sections that apply
to them) are as follows:

Corporations organized under Acts of
Congress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Teachers' retirement fund associations . . .
Mutual insurance companies . . . . . . . . . .
Corporations organized to finance crop
operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employee funded pension trusts (created
before June 25, 1959) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Withdrawal liability payment fund . . . . . . .
Veterans' organizations (created before
1880) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
National Railroad Retirement Investment
Trust . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Religious and apostolic associations . . . .
Cooperative hospital service
organizations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cooperative service organizations of
operating educational organizations . . . . .

501(c)(1)
501(c)(11)
501(c)(15)
501(c)(16)
501(c)(18)
501(c)(22)
501(c)(23)
501(c)(28)
501(d)
501(e)
501(f)

Section 501(c)(24) organizations (section
4049 ERISA trusts) are neither discussed in the
text nor listed in the Organization Reference
Chart.
Similarly, farmers' cooperative associations
that qualify for exemption under section 521,
qualified state tuition programs described in
section 529, qualified ABLE programs described in section 529A, and pension, profit-sharing, and stock bonus plans described in section
401(a) aren't discussed in this publication. Visit
IRS.gov for more information on these types of
organizations. For telephone assistance, call 1–
877–829–5500.
Check the Table of Contents at the beginning of this publication to determine whether
your organization is described in this publication. If it is, read the chapter (or section) that applies to your type of organization for the specific
information you must give when applying for
recognition of exemption.
Organization Reference Chart. The Organization Reference Chart enables you to locate at
a glance the section of the Code under which
your organization might qualify for exemption. It
also shows the required application form and, if
your organization meets the exemption requirements, the annual return to be filed (if any), and
whether or not a contribution to your organization will be deductible by a donor. It also describes each type of qualifying organization and
the general nature of its activities.
You may use the Organization Reference
Chart to identify the Code section that you think
applies to your organization. Any correspondence with the IRS (in requesting forms or otherwise) can be responded to faster if you indicate
in your correspondence the appropriate Code
section. Check the IRS website, IRS.gov, for the
latest updates, Tax Information for Charities &
Other Non-Profits.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and your
suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or, you can write to
Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526,
Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments as

3

we revise our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send tax questions, tax returns,
or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions.
If you have a tax question not answered by this
publication or How to Get Tax Help section at
the end of this publication, go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/Help/ITA
where you can find topics using the search feature or by viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. Visit IRS.gov/Forms to download
current and prior-year forms, instructions, and
publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and
publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year
forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon
as possible. Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.

Application Procedures
Oral requests for recognition of exemption won't
be considered by the IRS. Your application for
recognition of tax-exempt status must be in writing using the appropriate forms, as discussed
below.

If your organization is seeking recognition of exemption from federal income tax, it must use a
specific application prescribed by the IRS in the
current year revenue procedure. If your organization is a central organization with exempt status, see Group Exemption Letter, later. All applications must be signed by an authorized
individual.

• Application procedures that generally

•

apply to all organizations discussed in this
publication, including the application
forms;
• Determination letters (approvals/
disapprovals);
• Appeal procedures available if an adverse
determination letter is proposed; and
• Group exemption letters.

4

•
•
•
•
•

•
•

•
•

This chapter discusses:

sociations;

• 501(c)(12) Benevolent life insurance asso-

• 501(c)(3) Corporations, organized and op-

•

Topics

ders, etc.;

• 501(c)(11) Teachers’ Retirement Fund As-

•

•

If your organization is one of the organizations
described in this publication and is seeking recognition of tax-exempt status from the IRS, you
should follow the procedures described in this
chapter and the instructions that accompany
the appropriate application forms.
For information on section 501(c)(3) organizations, go to Section 501(c)(3) Organizations,
chapter 3. If your organization is seeking exemption under one of the other paragraphs of
section 501(c), see chapter 4.

associations;

• 501(c)(10) Domestic fraternal societies, or-

Form 1023, Application for Recognition of
Exemption Under Section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code. File Form 1023 if you
are seeking recognition of exemption under
section:

•

Introduction

orders, or associations;

• 501(c)(9) Voluntary employees’ beneficiary

Forms Required

1.
Application,
Approval, and
Appeal
Procedures

• 501(c)(8) Fraternal beneficiary societies,

erated exclusively for religious, charitable,
scientific, testing for public safety, literary,
or educational purposes, or to foster national or international amateur sports, or
prevention of cruelty for children or animals, including the following types of organizations to which the specified subsections are applicable;
501(e) Cooperative hospital service organization;
501(f) Cooperative service organization of
operating educational organizations;
501(k) Certain organizations providing
child care;
501(n) Charitable risk pools;
501(q) Credit counseling organizations,
and
501(r) Hospital organizations.

Applications for exempt status on a Form
1023 must be electronically submitted through
Pay.gov.
Form 1023-EZ, Streamlined Application for
Recognition of Exemption Under Section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. You
may be eligible to file Form 1023-EZ if you are a
smaller organization (assets of $250,000 or less
and annual gross receipts of $50,000 or less)
seeking recognition of exemption under section
501(c)(3).
Applications for exempt status on a Form
1023-EZ must be electronically submitted
through Pay.gov.
Form 1024, Application for Recognition of
Exemptions Under Section 501(a) or Section 521 of the Internal Revenue Code. File
Form 1024 if you are seeking recognition of exemption under section:
• 501(c)(2) Title holding corporations;
• 501(c)(5) Labor, agricultural, or horticultural organizations;
• 501(c)(6) Business leagues, chambers of
commerce, etc.;
• 501(c)(7) Social clubs;

Chapter 1

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

ciations, mutual ditch or irrigation companies, mutual or cooperative telephone
companies;
501(c)(13) Cemetery companies;
501(c)(14) State-Chartered Credit Unions,
Mutual Reserve Funds;
501(c)(15) Mutual insurance companies or
associations;
501(c)(16) Cooperative Organizations to
Finance Crop Operations;
501(c)(17) Trusts providing for the payment
of supplemental unemployment compensation benefits;
501(c)(18) Employee Funded Pension
Trust (created before June 25, 1959);
501(c)(19) A post, organization, auxiliary
unit, etc. of past or present members of the
Armed Forces of the United States;
501(c)(21) Black Lung Benefit Trusts;
501(c)(22) Withdrawal Liability Payment
Fund;
501(c)(23) Veterans’ Organization (created
before 1880);
501(c)(25) Title holding corporations or
trusts;
501(c)(26) State-Sponsored Organization
Providing Health Coverage for High-Risk
Individuals;
501(c)(27) State-Sponsored Workers’
Compensation Reinsurance Organization;
501(c)(28) National Railroad Retirement
Investment Trust;
501(c)(29) CO-OP health insurance issuers, and
501(d) Religious and Apostolic Associations.

Also, organizations requesting determinations
under Section 521 are now able to use the electronic Form 1024 instead of Form 1028, Application for Recognition of Exemption Under Section 521 of the Internal Revenue Code
As of January 3, 2022, applications for exempt status on a Form 1024 must be electronically submitted through Pay.gov.
Form 1024-A, Application for Recognition of
Exemption Under Section 501(c)(4) of the
Internal Revenue Code. File Form 1024-A if
you are seeking recognition of exemption under
section 501(c)(4).
Submitting Form 1024-A does not satisfy an
organization’s requirement to notify the Commissioner that it is operating under section
501(c)(4), as required by section 506. See
IRS.gov for information on satisfying the notification requirement using Form 8976, Notice of
Intent to Operate Under Section 501(c)(4).
Form 1024-A, Application for Recognition of
Exemption Under Section 501(c)(4), must be
filed electronically on Pay.gov.

Application, Approval, and Appeal Procedures

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Form 1028, Application for Recognition of
Exemption Under Section 521 of the Internal Revenue Code. Use Form 1028, Application for Recognition of Exemption Under Section 521 of the Internal Revenue Code, if your
organization is a farmers’ cooperative seeking
recognition of exemption under section 521.
You must also submit Form 8718.
Alternatively, organizations requesting determinations under Section 521 are now able to
use the electronic Form 1024 instead of Form
1028.
Form 8871, Political Organization Notice of
Section 527 Status. Use Form 8871, Political
Organization Notice of Section 527 Status, if
you are a political organization seeking to be
treated as tax-exempt under section 527 unless
an exception applies. See Political Organization
Income Tax Return, later.
Some organizations don’t have to use specific application forms. The application your organization must use is specified in the chapter
in this publication dealing with your kind of organization. It is also shown in the Organization
Reference Chart, later.
Form 8871 must be filed at the IRS Political
Organizations Filing and Disclosure site.
Power of attorney. If your organization expects to be represented by an individual such
as an attorney, CPA, officer or other person authorized to practice before the IRS, whether in
person or by correspondence, you must file a
Form 2848, Power of Attorney and Declaration
of Representative, with your exemption application. The power of attorney must specifically authorize an individual to represent your organization. You can't name an organization, firm, etc.
as your representative. Form 2848 can be used
for this purpose. The categories of individuals
who can represent you before the IRS are listed
on the form.
Form 8940, Request for Miscellaneous Determination. You can request miscellaneous
determinations under sections 507, 509(a),
4940, 4942, 4945, and 6033 using Form 8940.
Nonexempt charitable trusts also file Form 8940
for an initial determination of section 509(a)(3)
status or change to their type. See Form 8940
and instructions for more information.
Requests other than applications.
Requests other than applications for
recognition of exemption or Form 8940
(for example, requests for letter rulings involving
feeder organizations, application of excise taxes
to activities of private foundations, taxation of
unrelated business income, etc.) should be sent
to the appropriate address listed in the current
year revenue procedures.
These requests, similar to applications for
recognition of exemption previously discussed,
must be accompanied by the appropriate user
fee. The schedule for user fees, including those
for requests other than applications, can be
found in the current year revenue procedures.
Exempt Organization (EO) Determinations
can request technical advice from the Office of
Associate Chief Counsel (Employee Benefits,
Exempt Organizations, and Employment Taxes)
on any question that can't be resolved on the
Publication 557 (1-2025)

basis of law, regulations, or a clearly applicable
revenue ruling or other published precedent.
Reminder. The law requires payment of a user
fee for determination letter requests. See the
current year issued revenue procedures to find
the required payment. Payment must accompany each request.
Non-exemption for terrorist organizations.
An organization that is identified or designated
as a terrorist organization within the meaning of
section 501(p)(2) isn't eligible to apply for recognition of exemption.
User fee. The law requires the payment of a
user fee for determination letter requests such
as your application for recognition of tax-exempt
status. User fees are listed in the current year
issued revenue procedures. If you are filing
Form 1023, Form 1023-EZ, Form 1024 or
1024-A, the user fee must be submitted through
Pay.gov.
For the current user fee amount and

TIP other information about applying for

complete and was filed and approved by the
state, including the date filed.
If you are formed as a limited liability company and have adopted an operating agreement, submit the operating agreement along
with your state-approved articles of organization.
If your organization's name has been officially changed by an amendment to your organizing instruments, you should also attach a conformed copy of that amendment to your
application.
Conformed copy. A conformed copy is a
copy that agrees with the original and all
amendments to it. If the original document required a signature, the copy should either be
signed by a principal officer or, if not signed, be
accompanied by a written declaration signed by
an authorized officer of the organization. With
either option, the officer must certify that the
document is a complete and accurate copy of
the original. A certificate of incorporation should
be approved and dated by an appropriate state
official.

tax-exempt status, go to IRS.gov and
select “Charities and Non-Profits” from the buttons near the top. Next, select “Applying for
Tax-Exempt Status” for more information. You
can also call 1-877-829-5500.

Bylaws. Bylaws alone aren't organizing
documents. However, if your organization has
adopted bylaws, include a current copy. The bylaws need not be signed if submitted as an attachment.

Required Information and
Documents

TIP ing document only if they are properly

Employer identification number (EIN). Every exempt organization must have its own EIN,
whether or not it has any employees. An EIN is
required before an exemption application is
submitted. Information on how to apply for an
EIN can be found online at Employer ID
Numbers (EIN). The EIN is issued immediately
once the application information is validated.
If you previously applied for an EIN and
haven't yet received it, or you are unsure
whether you have an EIN, please call our
toll-free customer account services number,
1-877-829-5500, for assistance.
Organizing documents. If you are submitting
an application other than Form 1023-EZ, your
application should include a copy of the organizing or enabling document that is signed by a
principal officer or is accompanied by a written
declaration signed by an authorized individual
certifying that the document is a complete and
accurate copy of the original or meets the requirements of a conformed copy in Rev. Proc.
2011-9, section 3.08(5). If you are submitting a
Form 1023-EZ, you don’t need to include a
copy of your organizing documents with the application. However, you may be asked to provide it during the application review process.
If your organizing or enabling document are
articles of incorporation, include evidence that it
was filed and approved by a state official. (For
example, a stamped “Filed” copy dated by the
Secretary of State is prima facie evidence that it
was filed and approved by a state official.) A
copy of the articles of incorporation can also be
submitted with a written declaration signed by
an authorized individual indicating the copy is

Chapter 1

Bylaws may be considered an organiz-

structured (includes name, purpose,
signatures, and intent to form an organization).
Attachments. When submitting attachments,
every attachment should show your organization's name and EIN. It should also state that it
is an attachment to your application form and
identify the part and line item number to which it
applies.
Original documents. Don't submit original
documents because they become part of the
IRS file and can't be returned.
Description of activities. Your application
must include a full description of the proposed
activities of your organization, including each of
the fundraising activities of a section 501(c)(3)
organization and a narrative description of anticipated receipts and contemplated expenditures. When describing the activities in which
your organization expects to engage, you must
include the standards, criteria, procedures, or
other means that your organization adopted or
planned for carrying out those activities.
To determine the information you need to
provide, you should study the part of this publication that applies to your organization. The appropriate chapter will describe the purposes
and activities that your organization must pursue, engage in, and include in your application
in order to achieve exempt status.
Often, your organization's articles of organization (or other organizing instruments) contain
descriptions of your organization's purposes
and activities.
Your application should describe completely
and in detail your past, present, and planned
activities.
If you are filing Form 1023-EZ, also review
the Instructions for Form 1023-EZ for more

Application, Approval, and Appeal Procedures

5

information about what to include in your description.
Financial data. Unless you are filing Form
1023-EZ, you must include in your application a
statement of revenues and expenses for the
number of years specified in the applicable form
instructions. For each accounting period, you
must describe the sources of your receipts and
the nature of your expenditures. You must also
include a balance sheet for your most recently
completed tax year or if you haven’t completed
a full tax year, the most current information
available.
If you haven't yet begun operations, or have
operated for less than 1 year, a proposed
budget for 2 full accounting periods and a current statement of assets and liabilities will be
acceptable.
Exempt status established in application. If
your application and its supporting documents
show that your organization meets the requirements for tax-exempt status under the Code
section you applied, the IRS will issue a favorable determination letter.

Miscellaneous Procedures
To help in processing your application, be sure
to attach all schedules, statements, and other
documents required by the application form. If
you don’t attach them, you may have to resubmit your application or you may otherwise encounter a delay in processing your application.
Incomplete application. If an application isn't
complete and doesn't contain all the required
attachments found under Required Inclusions,
the IRS will return it to you for completion. The
IRS will no longer request the missing information if the application is incomplete. However,
the IRS may, but is not required to, request additional information to validate information presented or to clarify an inconsistency on a Form
1023-EZ.
If the IRS returns the application or requests
additional information from you, that application
will be considered filed on the date the substantially completed application is postmarked, or if
no postmark, received at the IRS.
For applications that are returned to the applicant because they aren't complete, the user
fee will be returned or refunded.
Additional information may be requested if
necessary to clarify the nature of your organization.
IRS responses. Organizations that successfully submit Form 1023, Form 1023-EZ, Form
1024, or Form 1024-A on Pay.gov will receive
an email from Pay.gov confirming payment of
the user fee. Organizations that submit a complete Form 1024 application will receive an acknowledgment from the IRS. In addition, any
applicant may receive a letter requesting additional information the IRS needs to make its determination. These letters will be sent out as
soon as possible after receipt of the organization's application.
Withdrawal of application. An organization
may withdraw an application at any time before
6

the issuance of a determination letter upon the
written request of a principal officer or authorized representative of your organization. However, the withdrawal won't prevent the information contained in the application from being
used by the IRS in any subsequent examination
of your organization's returns. The information
forwarded with an application won't be returned
to your organization and, generally, when an application is withdrawn, the user fee paid won't
be refunded.
Requests for withholding of information
from the public. The law requires many exempt organizations and private foundations to
make their application forms and annual information returns available for public inspection.
The law also requires the IRS to make available
for public inspection, in accordance with section
6104 and the related regulations, your approved
application for recognition of exemption (including any papers submitted in support of the application) and the determination letter (discussed later, under Determination Letters).
Any information submitted in the application
or in support of it that relates to any trade secret, patent, process, style of work, or apparatus, upon request, can be withheld from public
inspection if the IRS determines that the disclosure of such information would adversely affect
the organization. Your request must:
1. Identify the material to be withheld (the
document, page, paragraph, and line) by
clearly marking it “Not Subject to Public
Inspection.”
2. Explain why the information is of the type
that can be withheld from public inspection.
3. Be filed with the office where your organization files the documents in which the
material to be withheld is contained.
Where to file. Submit Form 1023, 1023-EZ,
1024, or 1024-A through Pay.gov.
EO Determinations will consider your complete application and will issue you a favorable
determination letter, an adverse letter denying
the exempt status requested in your application
or, if you are asked to provide supplemental information and fail to respond, may close your
case without making a determination if you
don't respond to a request for additional information. EO Determinations will also close your
case without a determination if you withdraw
your request.

Determination Letters
Public charity status. A new section 501(c)
(3) organization will be classified as a publicly
supported organization and not a private foundation if it can show when it applies for tax-exempt status that it reasonably can be expected
to be publicly supported.
An organization must describe fully the activities in which it expects to engage. This includes standards, procedures, or other means
adopted or planned by the organization for carrying out its activities, expected sources of

Chapter 1

funds, and the nature of its contemplated expenses.
Adverse determination. A proposed adverse
determination letter will be issued to an organization that has not provided sufficiently detailed
information to establish that it qualifies for exemption or if the information provided establishes that it doesn't qualify for exemption. An
organization can appeal a proposed adverse
determination letter. See Appeal Procedures,
later.
Expedited handling. Exempt organization determination letter requests may be eligible for
expedited handling under section 4.09 of Rev.
Proc. 2024-5.

Effective Date of Exemption
A determination letter recognizing exemption is
usually effective as of the date of formation
of an organization if, the organization submitted the application for recognition of exemption
within 27 months from the end of the month in
which it was organized and during the period
before the date of the determination letter, its
purposes and activities are consistent with the
requirements for exempt status under the applicable section of 501(c). Upon obtaining recognition of exemption, the organization can file a
claim for a refund of income taxes paid for the
period for which its exempt status is recognized.
An organization that does not submit its application for exemption within that 27-month period but otherwise meets the requirements for
tax-exempt status will be recognized as exempt
from the postmark date of application or the
submission date of its Form 1023, Form 1024,
Form 1023-EZ, or Form 1024-A, if applicable.
If an organization is required to alter its activities or substantially amend its charter to qualify,
the determination letter recognizing exemption
will be effective as of the date specified in
the letter. If a nonsubstantive amendment is
made, such as correction of a clerical error in
the enabling instrument or the addition of a dissolution clause, exemption will ordinarily be recognized as of the date of formation if the activities of the organization before the determination
are consistent with the exemption requirements.
A determination letter recognizing exemption can't be relied on if there is a material
change, inconsistent with exemption, in the
character, the purpose, or the method of operation of the organization. Also, a determination
letter can't be relied on if it is based on any
omission or inaccurate material information
submitted by the organization.
For more information about the effective
date of exemption, see the current year issued
revenue procedures.

Revocation of Exemption
A determination letter recognizing exemption
may be revoked by:
1. A notice to the organization to which the
determination letter originally was issued,
2. Enactment of legislation or ratification of a
tax treaty,

Application, Approval, and Appeal Procedures

Publication 557 (1-2025)

3. A decision of the United States Supreme
Court,
4. Issuance of temporary or final regulations,
or
5. Issuance of a revenue ruling, a revenue
procedue, or other statement published in
the Internal Revenue Bulletin or Cumulative Bulletin.
6. Section 6033(j), for failure to file a required
annual return or notice, for 3 consecutive
years, automatically.
When revocation takes effect. If the organization omitted or misstated material information, operated in a manner materially different
from that originally represented, or, with regard
to organizations to which section 503 applies,
engaged in a prohibited transaction (such as diverting corpus or income from its exempt purpose), or if there has been a change in the applicable law, the revocation or modification may
be retroactive.
Material change in organization. If there is a
material change, inconsistent with exemption, in
the character, purpose, or method of operation
of the organization, revocation or modification
will ordinarily take effect as of the date of that
material change. An organization may seek relief from retroactive revocation or modification of
a determination letter under section 7805(b).
For more information on requesting section
7805(b) relief, see the current year issued revenue procedures.
Relief from retroactivity. If a determination letter was issued in error or the IRS
changed its position after issuing a letter, and if
section 7805(b) relief is granted, retroactivity of
the revocation ordinarily will be limited to a date
not earlier than that on which the original determination letter was revoked.
Foundations. The determination of the effective date is the same for the revocation or
modification of foundation status or operating
foundation status unless the effective date is expressly covered by statute or regulations.
Written notice. If the IRS concludes, as a result of examining an information return or considering information from any other source, that
a determination letter should be revoked or
modified, the organization will be advised in
writing of the proposed action and the reasons
for it.
The organization will also be advised of its
right to protest the proposed action by requesting Independent Office of Appeals consideration. The appeal procedures are discussed
next.

Appeal Procedures
If your organization applies for recognition of
tax-exempt status and Rulings and Agreements
determines your organization doesn't qualify for
exemption, your organization will be advised of
its rights to protest the determination by requesting Independent Office of Appeals consideration. Your organization must submit a statement of its views fully explaining its reasoning.
Publication 557 (1-2025)

The statement must be submitted within 30
days from the date of the proposed adverse determination letter and must state whether your
organization wishes Independent Office of Appeals consideration.
Representation. A principal officer or trustee
can represent an organization at any level of appeal within the IRS. Also, an attorney, CPA, or
individual enrolled to practice before the IRS
can represent the organization.
If the organization's representative attends a
conference without a principal officer or trustee,
the representative must file a proper power of
attorney or a tax information authorization before receiving or inspecting confidential information. Form 2848 or Form 8821, Tax Information
Authorization, as appropriate (or any other
properly written power of attorney or authorization), can be used for this purpose. These forms
are available on IRS.gov from the Forms and Instructions page. For more information, see Publication 947, Practice Before the IRS and Power
of Attorney, which is also available on IRS.gov
from the Forms and Instructions page.

Independent Office of
Appeals Consideration
Before forwarding a case to the Independent
Office of Appeals, Rulings and Agreements will
consider the applicant’s statement protesting
and appealing (hereinafter appealing) the proposed adverse determination. If the organization does not submit the information that provides a basis for Rulings and Agreements to
reconsider its adverse determination, it will forward the appeal and case file to the Independent Office of Appeals. For more information
about the role of the Independent Office of Appeals, see Publication 892, How to Appeal an
IRS Decision on Tax-Exempt Status. The appeal should include the following information.
1. The organization's name, address, daytime telephone number, and employer
identification number.
2. A statement that the organization wants to
protest the determination.
3. A copy of the letter showing the determination you disagree with, or the date and
IRS office symbols on the determination
letter.
4. A statement of facts supporting the organization's position in any contested factual
issue.
5. A statement outlining the law or other authority the organization is relying on.
6. A statement as to whether a conference at
the Independent Office of Appeals is desired.
The statement of facts in item 4 must be declared true under penalties of perjury. This may
be done by adding to the protest the following
signed declaration:

Chapter 1

“Under penalties of perjury, I declare that I
have examined the statement of facts
presented in this protest and in any
accompanying schedules and statements and,
to the best of my knowledge and belief, it is
true, correct, and complete.”
Signature.

If the organization's representative submits the
appeal, a substitute declaration must be included, stating:
1. That the representative prepared the appeal and accompanying documents, and
2. Whether the representative knows personally that the statements of fact contained in
the appeal and accompanying documents
are true and correct.
Be sure the appeal contains all of the information requested. Incomplete appeals will be
returned for completion.
The Independent Office of Appeals, after
any requested conference and upon consideration of the organization's appeal, as well as information presented in any conference held, will
generally notify the organization of its decision
and issue an appropriate determination letter.
An adverse decision can be appealed to the
courts (discussed later). If new information is
submitted during Independent Office of Appeals
consideration, the matter may be returned to
Rulings and Agreements for further consideration.
The Independent Office of Appeals must request technical advice on any exempt organization issue concerning qualification for exemption or foundation status for which there is no
published precedent or for which there is reason to believe that nonuniformity exists. If an organization believes that its case involves such
an issue, it should ask the Independent Office
of Appeals to request technical advice.
Any determination letter issued on the basis
of technical advice can't be appealed to the Independent Office of Appeals for those issues
that were the subject of the technical advice.

Administrative Remedies
In the case of an application under section
501(c) or 501(d) and exempt from tax under
501(a), all of the following actions, called administrative remedies, must be completed by
your organization before an unfavorable determination letter from the IRS can be appealed to
the courts.
1. The filing of the correct completed application or group exemption request under
section 501(c), or 501(d) and exempt from
tax under 501(a) (described earlier in this
chapter) or the filing of a request for a determination of foundation status (see Private Foundations and Public Charities in
chapter 3).
2. In the case of a late-filed application, requesting relief under Regulations section
301.9100 regarding applications for extensions of time for making an election or application for relief from tax (see Application
for Recognition of Exemption in chapter 3).

Application, Approval, and Appeal Procedures

7

3. The timely submission of all additional information requested to perfect an exemption application or request for determination of private foundation status.
4. Exhaustion of all administrative appeals
available within the IRS.
The actions just described won't be considered completed until the IRS has had a reasonable time to act upon the appeal or protest, as
the case may be.
An organization won't be considered to have
exhausted its administrative remedies before
the earlier of:
1. The completion of the steps just listed and
the sending by certified or registered mail
of a notice of final determination, or
2. The expiration of the 270-day period in
which the IRS has not issued a notice of final determination and the organization has
taken, in a timely manner, all reasonable
steps to secure a ruling or determination.
270-day period. The 270-day period will be
considered by the IRS to begin on the date a
completed application, or group exemption request is sent or submitted to the IRS. See Application Procedures, earlier, for information needed to complete the application form.
If the application doesn't contain all of the required items, it won't be further processed and
may be returned to the applicant for completion.
The 270-day period, in this event, won't be considered as starting until the date the application
is remailed to the IRS with the requested information, or, if a postmark isn't evident, on the
date the IRS receives a completed application.

Appeal to Courts
If the IRS issues an unfavorable determination
letter to your organization and you have exhausted all the administrative remedies just discussed, your organization can seek judicial
remedies.
For example, if your organization has paid
the tax resulting from the adverse determination
and met all other statutory prerequisites, it can
file suit for a refund in a U.S. District Court or the
U.S. Court of Federal Claims. Or, if your organization elected not to pay the tax deficiency resulting from the adverse determination and met
all other statutory prerequisites, it can file suit
for a redetermination of the tax deficiencies in
the United States Tax Court. For more information on these types of suits, get Publication 556,
Examination of Returns, Appeal Rights, and
Claims for Refund.
In certain situations, your organization can
file suit for a declaratory judgment in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia, the
U.S. Court of Federal Claims, or the U.S. Tax
Court. This remedy is available if your organization received an adverse notice of final determination, or if the IRS failed to make a timely determination on your initial or continuing

8

qualification or classification as an exempt organization. However, your exempt status claim
must be as:
• An organization qualifying under section
501(c) or 501(d) and exempt from tax under 501(a),
• An organization to which a deduction for a
contribution is allowed under section
170(c)(2),
• An organization that is a private foundation
under section 509(a),
• A private operating foundation under section 4942(j)(3), or
• A cooperative organization that is exempt
from tax under section 521.
Adverse notice of final determination. The
adverse notice of final determination referred to
above is a determination letter sent by certified
or registered mail holding that your organization:
• Isn't described in section 501(c) or 501(d)
and exempt from tax under 501(a), or section 170(c)(2);
• Is a private foundation and not a public
charity described in a part of section 509 or
section 170(b)(1)(A);
• Is not a private operating foundation, as
defined in section 4942(j)(3); or
• Is a public charity described in a part of
section 509(a) or section 170(b)(1)(A)
other than the part under which your organization requested classification.
Favorable court rulings - IRS procedure. If a
suit results in a final determination that your organization is exempt from tax, the IRS will issue
a favorable determination letter, provided your
organization has filed an application for exemption and submitted a statement that the underlying facts and applicable law are the same as in
the period considered by the court.

Group Exemption Letter
A group exemption letter is a determination letter issued to a central organization recognizing
on a group basis the exemption under section
501(c) of subordinate organizations on whose
behalf the central organization has applied for
recognition of exemption.
A central organization is an organization that
has one or more subordinates under its general
supervision or control. A subordinate organization is a chapter, local, post, or unit of a central
organization.
A subordinate organization may or may not
be incorporated, but it must have an organizing
document and it must have its own taxpayer
identification number (EIN). A subordinate that
is organized and operated in a foreign country
can't be included in a group exemption letter. A
subordinate described in section 501(c)(3) can't
be included in a group exemption letter if it is a
private foundation described in section 509(a).
If your organization is a subordinate controlled by a central organization (for example, a
church, a veterans' organization, or a fraternal
organization), you should check with the central
organization to see if it has been issued a group
exemption letter that covers your organization. If

Chapter 1

it has, you don’t have to file a separate application unless your organization no longer wants to
be included in the group exemption letter.
If the group exemption letter doesn't cover
your organization, ask your central organization
about being included in the next annual group
ruling update that it submits to the IRS.
See Publication 4573, Group Exemptions,
for additional general information about group
exemption. Go to the Charities & Nonprofits
page on IRS.gov for Group Exemption Resources for the most current information and updates.

Central Organization
Application Procedure
Note: The content about the Central Organization Application Procedure is included here
for informational purposes. However, as stated
in Notice 2020-36, IRB 2020-21, 840 and the
current year issued revenue procedures, the
IRS is not accepting any requests for group exemption letters until publication of the final revenue procedure described in the Notice or other
guidance in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.
If your organization is a central organization
with affiliated subordinates under its control, it
can apply for a group exemption letter for its
subordinates, provided it has obtained recognition of its own exemption. A central organization
obtains recognition of its own exemption by
submitting Form 1023 or 1023-EZ, 1024, or
1024-A, as described in their instructions, with
the appropriate user fee. You request the group
exemption letter for the central organization’s
subordinates by letter rather than a specific application form. The issuance of the group exemption letter relieves each of the covered subordinates from filing its own application.
A central organization that has previously
obtained recognition of its own exemption must
indicate its employer identification number and
the date of the letter recognizing its exemption,
but need not forward documents already submitted. However, if it has not already done so,
the central organization must submit a copy of
any amendment to its governing instruments or
internal regulations as well as any information
about changes in its character, purposes, or
method of operation.
Employer identification number. Each subordinate must have its own EIN, even if it has no
employees. When submitting its group exemption application, the central organization must
provide an EIN for each subordinate organization.
Information required for subordinate organizations. The exempt central organization requests the group ruling letter. The central organization must submit information for
subordinates it will include in the group exemption letter. The information should be forwarded
in a letter signed by a principal officer of the
central organization setting forth or including as
attachments the following.
1. Information verifying that the subordinates:

Application, Approval, and Appeal Procedures

Publication 557 (1-2025)

a. Are affiliated with the central organization at the close of its annual accounting period;
b. Are subject to its general supervision
or control;
c. Are all eligible to qualify for exemption
under the same paragraph of section
501(c), though not necessarily the
paragraph under which the central organization itself is exempt;
d. If described in section 501(c)(3),
aren’t private foundations;
e. Are all on the same accounting period
as the central organization if they are
to be included in group returns (described later); and
f. If described in section 501(c)(3), are
organizations that have been formed
within the 15-month period preceding
the date of submission of the group
exemption application if they are subject to the requirements of section
508(a) and wish to be recognized as
exempt from their dates of creation . If
one or more of the subordinates
haven't been organized within the
15-month period, a group ruling may
be issued if all subordinates are willing to be recognized as exempt only
from the date of application.
2. A detailed description of the purposes and
activities of the subordinates, including the
sources of receipts and the nature of expenditures.
3. A sample copy of a uniform governing instrument (such as articles of incorporation or articles of association) adopted by
the subordinates, or, in its absence, copies
of representative instruments.
4. An affirmation to the effect that, to the best
of the officer's knowledge, the purposes
and activities of the subordinates are as
stated in (2) and (3), above.
5. A statement that each of the subordinates
has provided a written authorization to the
central organization, signed by an authorized officer of the subordinate, agreeing to
be included in the group exemption (see
also New 501(c)(3) organizations that
want to be included, later in this section).
6. A list of subordinates to be included in the
group exemption letter, to which the IRS
has issued an outstanding determination
letter.
7. An affirmation to the effect that, to the best
of the officer's knowledge and belief, no
subordinate described in section 501(c)(3)
is a private foundation, as defined in section 509(a).
8. For each subordinate that is a school
claiming exemption under section 501(c)
(3), the information required by Revenue
Ruling 75-50, 1975-2 C.B. 587 (as modified by Rev. Proc. 71-447, 1971-2 C.B. 230
and Rev. Proc. 2019–22, 2019–2 I.R.B.
1260) these requirements are described in
chapter 3, under Private Schools.
Publication 557 (1-2025)

9. For any school affiliated with a church, the
information to show that the provisions of
Revenue Ruling 75-231, 1975-1 C.B. 158,
have been met.
10. A list of the names, mailing addresses, actual addresses if different, and EINs of
subordinates to be included in the group
exemption letter. A current directory of
subordinates may be furnished instead of
the list if it includes the required information and if the subordinates not to be included in the group exemption letter are identified.

of the subordinates included in the group
exemption letter.
2. A separate list (that includes the names,
mailing addresses, actual addresses if different, and EINs of the affected subordinates) for each of the three following categories.
a. Subordinates that have changed their
names or addresses during the year.
b. Subordinates no longer to be included
in the group exemption letter because
they no longer exist or have disaffiliated from or withdrawn their authorization to the central organization.

New 501(c)(3) organizations that want to be
included. A new organization, described in
section 501(c)(3), that wants to be included in a
group exemption letter must submit its authorization (as explained in item number 5, earlier,
under Information required for subordinate organizations) to the central organization before
the end of the 15th month after it was formed in
order to satisfy the requirement of section
508(a). The central organization must also include this subordinate in its next annual submission of information, as discussed later, under Information Required Annually.

Keeping the Group
Exemption Letter in Force
Continued effectiveness of a group exemption
letter is based on the following conditions.
1. The continued existence of the central organization.
2. The continued qualification of the central
organization for exemption under section
501(c).

c. Subordinates to be added to the
group exemption letter because they
are newly organized or affiliated or because they have recently authorized
the central organization to include
them.
An annotated directory of subordinates
won't be accepted for this purpose. If there
were none of the above changes, the central organization must submit a statement
to that effect.
3. The same information about new subordinates that was required in the initial application for group exemption. (This information is listed in items 1 through 10, under
Information required for subordinate organizations, earlier.) If a new subordinate
doesn't differ in any material respects from
the subordinates included in the application for group exemption, however, a statement to this effect may be submitted in lieu
of detailed information.
The organization should send this information to:

3. The submission by the central organization of the information regarding its subordinate organizations that is required annually (described under Information Required
Annually).
4. The annual filing of an information return
(Form 990, for example) by the central organization, if required.
In addition, a group exemption letter will not be
effective as to a particular subordinate if the
subordinate ceases to conform to the requirements for inclusion in a group exemption letter
and authorization for inclusion (see items 1 and
5 in Information required for subordinate organizations, earlier), and the annual filing of any required information return for the subordinate. A
central organization may file a group return for
some or all of its subordinates. If it does so, the
group return must be filed on Form 990 under a
separate EIN obtained exclusively for the purpose of filing the group return. Form 990-EZ
cannot be used for a group return.

Information Required Annually
To maintain a group exemption letter, the central
organization must submit annually, at least 90
days before the close of its annual accounting
period, all of the following information.
1. Information about all changes in the purposes, character, or method of operation

Chapter 1

Internal Revenue Service Center
Ogden, UT 84201–0027
Submitting the required information annually doesn't relieve the central organCAUTION ization or any of its subordinates of the
duty to submit any other information that may be
required by an EO area manager to determine
whether the conditions for continued exemption
are being met.

!

As of 2019, the IRS will no longer send

TIP the List of Parent and Subsidiary Accounts to the central organizations.

Events Causing
Loss of Group Exemption
A group exemption letter no longer has effect,
for either a particular subordinate or the group
as a whole, when:
1. The central organization notifies the IRS
that it is going out of existence;
2. The central organization notifies the IRS,
by its annual submission or otherwise, that
any of its subordinates will no longer fulfill

Application, Approval, and Appeal Procedures

9

the conditions for continued effectiveness,
explained earlier, or
3. The IRS notifies the central organization or
the affected subordinate that the group exemption letter will no longer have effect for
some or all of the group because the conditions for continued effectiveness of a
group exemption letter haven't been fulfilled.
When notice is given under any of these three
conditions, the IRS will no longer recognize the
exempt status of the affected subordinates until
they file separate applications on their own behalf or the central organization files complete
supporting information for their inclusion in the
group exemption at the time of its annual submission. However, when the notice is given by
the IRS and the withdrawal of recognition is
based on the failure of the organization to comply with the requirements for recognition of
tax-exempt status under the particular subsection of section 501(c), the revocation will ordinarily take effect as of the date of that failure. The
notice, however, will be given only after the appeal procedures described earlier in this chapter are completed.

Topics

Schedule M (Form 990) Noncash
Contributions
Schedule M (Form 990)

This chapter discusses:

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Annual information returns
Unrelated business income tax return
Employment tax returns
Political organization income tax return
Reporting requirements for a political
organization
Donee information return
Information provided to donors
Report of cash received
Public inspection of exemption
applications, annual returns, and political
organizations reporting forms
Required disclosures
Miscellaneous rules

Useful Items

You may want to see:

15

Circular E, Employer's Tax Guide

15-A Employer's Supplemental Tax Guide
15-A

15-B Employer's Tax Guide to Fringe
Benefits
15-B

In addition, the IRS will cease to recognize
the subordinates under a group exemption as
tax-exempt if the central organization is automatically revoked for failure to file required returns or notices for 3 consecutive years. See
Automatic Revocation, later. Subordinates under a group exemption are also subject to automatic revocation for failure to file required returns (or appear on a group return if the
subordinate does not file its own) or notices for
3 consecutive years. A subordinate organization
that is automatically revoked must apply to the
IRS for reinstatement of its exempt status.
Thereafter, it may retain independent exempt
status or it may seek to resume its status as a
subordinate of the central organization. See
Group Exemption Resources .

Schedule N (Form 990)

Schedule O (Form 990) Supplemental
Information to Form 990
Schedule O (Form 990)

940 Employer's Annual Federal
Unemployment (FUTA) Tax Return
940

Schedule R (Form 990) Related
Organizations and Unrelated
Partnerships
Schedule R (Form 990)

990-PF Return of Private Foundation or
Section 4947(a)(1) Nonexempt
Charitable Trust Treated as a Private
Foundation
990-PF

990-N Electronic Notice (e-Postcard) for
Tax-Exempt Organizations Not
Required to File Form 990 or Form
990-EZ
990-N

Publication
15

Schedule N (Form 990) Liquidation,
Termination, Dissolution, or
Significant Disposition of Assets

598 Tax on Unrelated Business Income of
Exempt Organizations

990-T Exempt Organization Business
Income Tax Return
990-T

Schedule A (Form 990-T) Unrelated
Business Taxable Income from an
Unrelated Trade or Business
Schedule A (Form 990-T)

598

990-W Estimated Tax on Unrelated
Business Taxable Income for
Tax-Exempt Organizations
990-W

Form (and Instructions)
941 Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax
Return

1120-POL U.S. Income Tax Return for
Certain Political Organizations

990 Return of Organization Exempt From
Income Tax

4720 Return of Certain Excise Taxes
Under Chapters 41 and 42 of the
Internal Revenue Code

941

990

990-EZ Short Form Return of
Organization Exempt From Income
Tax
Schedule A (Form 990) Public Charity
Status and Public Support
Schedule A (Form 990)

Schedule B (Form 990)

Schedule C (Form 990) Political
Campaign and Lobbying Activities
Schedule C (Form 990)

Schedule D (Form 990) Supplemental
Financial Statements
Schedule D (Form 990)

Schedule E (Form 990) Schools

Filing
Requirements
and Required
Disclosures

4720

990-EZ

Schedule B (Form 990) Schedule of
Contributors

2.

1120-POL

5768 Election/Revocation of Election by
an Eligible Section 501(c)(3)
Organization To Make Expenditures
To Influence Legislation
5768

6069 Return of Certain Excise Taxes on
Mine Operators, Black Lung Trusts,
and Other Persons Under Sections
4951, 4952, and 4953
6069

7004 Application for Automatic Extension
of Time to File Certain Business
Income Tax, Information, and Other
Returns
7004

Schedule E (Form 990)

Schedule F (Form 990) Statement of
Activities Outside the United States
Schedule F (Form 990)

Schedule G (Form 990) Supplemental
Information Regarding Fundraising or
Gaming Activities
Schedule G (Form 990)

8274 Certification by Churches and
Qualified Church-Controlled
Organizations Electing Exemption
from Employer Social Security and
Medicare Taxes
8274

8282 Donee Information Return
8282

Schedule H (Form 990) Hospitals
Schedule H (Form 990)

8300 Report of Cash Payments Over
$10,000 Received in a Trade or
Business
8300

Schedule I (Form 990) Grants and Other
Assistance to Organizations,
Governments, and Individuals in the
United States
Schedule I (Form 990)

Introduction
Most exempt organizations (including private
foundations) must file various returns and reports at some time during (or following the close
of) their accounting period.

Schedule J (Form 990) Compensation
Information
Schedule J (Form 990)

8453-X Political Organization Declaration
for Electronic Filing of Notice of
Section 527 Status
8453-X

8822-B Change of Address or
Responsible Party—Business
8822-B

Schedule K (Form 990) Supplemental
Information on Tax-Exempt Bonds
Schedule K (Form 990)

8868 Application for Automatic Extension
of Time to File an Exempt
Organization Return
8868

Schedule L (Form 990) Transactions
With Interested Persons
Schedule L (Form 990)

10

Chapter 2

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

Publication 557 (1-2025)

8870 Information Return for Transfers
Associated with Certain Personal
Benefits Contracts

committee of a state or local candidate, a
caucus or association of state or local officials, or required to report under the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 as a
political committee;

8870

8871 Political Organization Notice of
Section 527 Status
8871

8872 Political Organization Report of
Contributions and Expenditures
8872

8886-T Disclosure by Tax-Exempt Entity
Regarding Prohibited Tax Shelter
Transaction
8886-T

8899 Notice of Income from Donated
Intellectual Property
8899

8976 Notice of Intent to Operate Under
Section 501(c)(4)

14. An exempt organization (other than a private foundation or a supporting organization described in Supporting Organization
Annual Information Return, later) that normally has annual gross receipts of
$50,000 or less (required to file Form
990-N, Electronic Notice (e-Postcard) for
Tax-Exempt Organizations Not Required
to File Form 990 or Form 990-EZ); or

8976

See chapter 6 for information about getting
these publications and forms.

Annual Information
Returns

1. A church, an interchurch organization of
local units of a church, a convention or association of churches;
2. An integrated auxiliary of a church;
3. A church-affiliated organization that is exclusively engaged in managing funds or
maintaining retirement programs;
4. A school below college level affiliated with
a church or operated by a religious order;
5. Church-affiliated mission societies if more
than half of their activities are conducted
in, or are directed at persons in, foreign
countries;
6. An exclusively religious activity of any religious order;
7. A state institution, the income of which is
excluded from gross income under section
115;
8. A corporation described in section 501(c)
(1) that is organized under an Act of Congress, an instrumentality of the United
States, and is exempt from federal income
taxes;
9. A stock bonus, pension, or profit-sharing
trust that qualifies under section 401 (required to file Form 5500, Annual Return/
Report of Employee Benefit Plan);
10. A religious or apostolic organization described in section 501(d) (required to file
Form 1065, U.S. Return of Partnership Income);
11. A governmental unit or an affiliate of a governmental unit that meets the requirements of Rev. Proc. 95-48, 1995-2 C.B.
418, IRS.gov/pub/irs-tege/rp1995-48.pdf ;
12. A private foundation described in section
501(c)(3) and exempt under section
501(a) (required to file Form 990-PF, Return of Private Foundation);
13. A political organization that is a state or local committee of a political party, a political

cer;

• Organization's annual tax period;
• Verification that the organization's annual

gross receipts are normally $50,000 or
less; and
• Notification if the organization has terminated.

Form 990-N is due by the 15th day of the
fifth month after the close of the tax year. For tax
years beginning after December 31, 2006, any
organization that fails to meet its annual reporting requirement for 3 consecutive years will automatically lose its tax-exempt status. To regain
its exempt status an organization will have to reapply for recognition as a tax-exempt organization.

1. An integrated auxiliary of a church;

Exceptions. This filing requirement doesn't
apply to:
• Churches, their integrated auxiliaries, and
conventions or associations of churches;
• Organizations that are included in a group
return;
• Private foundations required to file Form
990-PF; and
• Section 509(a)(3) supporting organizations
required to file Form 990 or Form 990-EZ.

2. The exclusively religious activities of a religious order; or

Forms 990 and 990-EZ

Supporting Organization
Annual Information Return

Every organization exempt from federal income
tax under section 501(a) must file an Annual
Exempt Organization Return except:

Publication 557 (1-2025)

15. A foreign organization, or an organization
located in a U.S. territory, that normally
has annual gross receipts from sources
within the United States of $50,000 or
less.

• Its Internet website address (if any);
• Its taxpayer identification number;
• The name and address of a principal offi-

Each section 509(a)(3) supporting organization
is required to file Form 990 or 990-EZ with the
IRS regardless of the organization's gross receipts, unless it qualifies as one of the following:

3. An organization, the gross receipts of
which are normally not more than $5,000,
that supports a section 509(a)(3) religious
order.
If the organization is described in item (3)
above, then it must submit Form 990-N (e-Postcard) unless it voluntarily files Form 990 or
990-EZ.
On its annual information return, in Part I,
Schedule A (Form 990) a supporting organization must:
• List the organizations to which it provides
support;
• Indicate whether it is a Type I, Type II, or
Type III supporting organization; and
• Certify that the organization isn't controlled
directly or indirectly by disqualified persons
(other than by foundation managers and
other than one or more publicly supported
organizations).

Annual Electronic Notice Filing
Requirement for Small Tax-Exempt
Organizations
Small tax-exempt organizations with annual
gross receipts normally $50,000 or less that are
not otherwise required to file an annual information return and are not otherwise exempted entirely from a filing requirement must submit
Form 990-N, Electronic Notice (e-Postcard) for
Tax-Exempt Organizations Not Required to File
Form 990 or 990-EZ, with the IRS each year, if
they choose not to file a Form 990 or 990-EZ.
Form 990-N requires the following information:
• The organization's legal name, and mailing
address;
• Any name under which it operates and
does business;

Chapter 2

Exempt organizations, other than private foundations, must file their annual information returns on Form 990 or 990-EZ, unless excepted
from filing or allowed to submit Form 990-N, described earlier.
Generally, political organizations with gross
receipts of $25,000 ($100,000 for a qualified
state or local political organization (QSLPO)) or
more for the tax year are required to file Form
990 or 990-EZ unless specifically excepted
from filing the annual return. The following political organizations aren't required to file Form
990 or Form 990-EZ.
• A state or local committee of a political
party.
• A political committee of a state or local
candidate.
• A caucus or association of state or local officials.
• A political organization that is required to
report as a political committee under the
Federal Election Campaign Act.
• A 501(c) organization that has expenditures for influencing or attempting to influence the selection, nomination, election, or
appointment of any individual for a federal,
state, or local public office.
Form 990-EZ. This is a shortened version of
Form 990. Form 990-EZ is designed for use by
small exempt organizations and nonexempt
charitable trusts.
An organization can file either Form 990 or
990-EZ if it satisfies both of the following:
1. Its gross receipts during the year are less
than $200,000.

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

11

2. Its total assets (line 25, column (B) of
Form 990-EZ) at the end of the year are
less than $500,000.
If your organization doesn't satisfy both of these
conditions, it can't file Form 990-EZ. Instead,
the organization must file Form 990.
Group return. A group return on Form 990
may be filed by a central, parent, or like organization for two or more local organizations, none
of which is a private foundation. This return is in
addition to the central organization's separate
annual return if it must file a return. The central
organization can't be included in the group return. See the Instructions for Form 990 for the
conditions under which this procedure may be
used.
In any year that an organization is prop-

TIP erly included as a subordinate organi-

zation on a group return, it shouldn't file
its own Form 990.

Schedule A (Form 990). Organizations, other
than private foundations, that are described in
section 501(c)(3) and that are otherwise required to file Form 990 or 990-EZ must also
complete Schedule A of that form.
Schedule B (Form 990). Organizations that
file Form 990, 990-EZ or 990-PF use this
schedule to provide required information regarding certain contributors.
Schedule O (Form 990). Organizations that
file Form 990 or 990-EZ, must use this schedule
to provide required additional information or if
additional space is needed.
Other schedules may be required to be filed
with Form 990 or 990-EZ. See the Instructions
for Form 990 or the Instructions for Form
990-EZ for more information.
Report significant new or changed program
services and changes to organizational
documents. An organization should report
new significant program services or significant
changes in how it conducts program services,
and significant changes to its organizational
documents, on its Form 990 rather than in a letter to EO Determinations. EO Determinations
no longer issues letters confirming the tax-exempt status of organizations that report new
services or significant changes, or changes to
organizational documents. See Miscellaneous
Rules, Organization Changes and Exempt Status, later.

Form 990-PF
All private foundations exempt under section
501(c)(3) must file Form 990-PF. These organizations are discussed in chapter 3.

electronically, including Form 990, 990-EZ,
990-PF, 8872, and 990-T. The e-filing requirement is generally effective for tax years beginning after July 1, 2019. The Taxpayer First Act
allows transitional relief for certain small organizations or other organizations for which the IRS
determines that application of the e-filing requirement would constitute an undue hardship
in the absence of additional transitional time.
If an organization is required to file a return
electronically but doesn't, it isn't considered to
have filed its return. See Regulations section
301.6033-4 for more information.
Form 990. For tax years beginning on or
before July 1, 2019, an organization is required
to file Form 990 electronically if it files at least
250 returns during the calendar year and has
total assets of $10 million or more at the end of
the tax year. For tax years beginning after July
1, 2019, an organization is required to file Form
990 electronically unless exceptions described
in the form instructions apply. As of the 2020
Form 990, the instructions no longer describe
any exceptions to the e-filing requirement.
Form 990-EZ. For small exempt organizations, the legislation specifically allowed a postponement (“transitional relief”). For tax years
ending before July 31, 2021, the IRS will accept
either paper or electronic filing of Form 990-EZ,
Short Form Return of Organization Exempt from
Income Tax. For tax years ending July 31, 2021,
and later, Forms 990-EZ must be filed electronically. Generally, Form 990-EZ is for organizations with annual gross receipts less than
$200,000 and total assets at tax year-end less
than $500,000.
Form 990-PF. For tax years beginning on or
before July 1, 2019, an organization is required
to file Form 990-PF electronically if it files at
least 250 returns during the calendar year. For
tax years beginning after July 1, 2019, an organization is required to file Form 990-PF electronically unless exceptions described in the
form instructions apply. As of the 2020 Form
990-PF, the instructions no longer describe any
exceptions to the e-filing requirement.
Form 990-N. An organization that is eligible
and elects to submit Form 990-N must submit it
electronically.
Form 990-T. The IRS continued to accept
paper forms Form 990-T into 2021 pending its
conversion into electronic format. In March
2020, the IRS announced the availability of the
electronic filing of Form 990-T. Any 2020, and
any future year Form 990-T with a due date on
or after April 15, 2021, must be filed electronically and not on paper.
Form 8872. Form 8872 must be filed electronically if reporting on periods after 2019.

Electronic Filing

Due Date

For tax years beginning on or before July 1,
2019, your organization may be required to file
Form 990, Form 990-EZ, or Form 990-PF, and
related forms, schedules, and attachments
electronically. For tax years beginning after July
1, 2019, under the Taxpayer First Act, organizations are required to file certain returns

Forms 990, 990-EZ, or 990-PF must be filed by
the 15th day of the fifth month after the end of
your organization's accounting period. Thus, for
a calendar year taxpayer, Forms 990, 990-EZ,
or 990-PF are due May 15 of the following year.
If any due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or

12

Chapter 2

legal holiday, the return will be due the next
business day.
Extension of time to file. Use Form 8868 to
request an automatic six month extension of
time to file Forms 990, 990-EZ, or 990-PF.
When filing Form 8868 for an automatic extension, neither a signature, nor an explanation
is required.
Application for exemption pending. An organization that claims to be exempt under section 501(a) but has not established its exempt
status by the due date for filing an information
return must complete and file Form 990,
990-EZ, 990-N, or 990-PF (if it considers itself a
private foundation), unless the organization is
exempt from Form 990-series filing requirements. If the organization's application is pending with the IRS, it must so indicate on Forms
990, 990-EZ, or 990-PF (whichever applies) by
checking the application pending block at the
top of page 1 of the return. For more information
on the filing requirements, see the Instructions
for Forms 990, 990-EZ, and 990-PF.
State reporting requirements. Copies of
Forms 990, 990-EZ, or 990-PF may be used to
satisfy state reporting requirements. See the instructions for those forms.
Form 8870. Organizations that filed a Form
990, 990-EZ, or 990-PF, and paid premiums or
received transfers on certain life insurance, annuity, and endowment contracts (personal benefit contracts), must file Form 8870. For more information, see Form 8870 and the instructions
for that form.
Form 8822-B. If you moved during the year, fill
out Form 8822-B, Change of Address or Responsible Party-Business. Also, if your “Responsible Party” changed this year, you must
also fill out Form 8822-B. The “Responsible
Party” is the tax-exempt organization’s “Principal Officer,”as defined in the Form 990 instructions, in the Glossary section.

Automatic Revocation
If the organization fails to file a Form 990,
990-EZ, or 990-PF, or fails to submit a Form
990-N, as required, for 3 consecutive years, it
will automatically lose its tax-exempt status by
operation of law effective as of the due date for
the third missed return or notice. The list of organizations whose tax-exempt status has been
automatically revoked is available on IRS.gov.
This list (Auto-Revocation List) may be viewed
and searched on Tax-Exempt Organization
Search. The Auto-Revocation List includes
each organization's name, employer identification number (EIN), and last known address. It
also includes the effective date of the automatic
revocation and the date it was posted to the list.
For auto-revoked organizations that applied for
and received reinstatement, the list gives the
date of reinstatement. The IRS updates the list
monthly to include additional organizations that
lose their tax-exempt status.

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Tax Effect of Loss of Tax-Exempt
Status
If your organization’s tax-exempt status is automatically revoked, you may be required to file
one of the following federal income tax returns
and pay any applicable income taxes:
• Form 1120, U.S. Corporation Income Tax
Return, due by the 15th day of the 3rd
month after the end of your organization’s
tax year, or
• Form 1041, U.S. Income Tax Return for Estates and Trusts, due by the 15th day of the
4th month after the end of your organization’s tax year.
In addition, a section 501(c)(3) organization
that loses its tax-exempt status can't receive
tax-deductible contributions and won't be identified in the IRS Business Master File extract as
eligible to receive tax-deductible contributions,
or be included in Tax-Exempt Organization
Search (Pub. 78 database).
An organization whose exemption was automatically revoked must apply for tax exemption
in order to regain its tax exemption (even if it
wasn't originally required to apply). In some situations, an organization may be able to obtain
exemption retroactive to its date of revocation.
Similarly, if the central organization with a Group
Exemption Number is automatically revoked, all
its covered subsidiaries may need to apply for
exemption as independent organizations.
For more information about automatic revocation, go to IRS.gov and select Charities &
Non-Profits and then select Reinstated? Learn
more with Reinstate Tax-Exempt Status.

Penalties
Penalties for failure to file. Generally, an exempt organization that fails to file a required return must pay a penalty of $20 a day for each
day the failure continues. The same penalty will
apply if the organization doesn't give all the information required on the return or doesn't give
the correct information.
Maximum penalty. The maximum penalty
for any one return is the smaller of $10,000 or
5% of the organization's gross receipts for the
year.
Organization with gross receipts over $1
million. For an organization that has gross receipts of over $1 million for the year, the penalty
is $100 a day up to a maximum of $50,000.
Managers. If the organization is subject to
this penalty, the IRS may specify a date by
which the return or correct information must be
supplied by the organization. Failure to comply
with this demand will result in a penalty imposed upon the manager of the organization, or
upon any other person responsible for filing a
correct return. The penalty is $10 a day for each
day that a return isn't filed after the period given
for filing. The maximum penalty imposed on all
persons with respect to any one return is
$5,000.
Penalties indexed for inflation. These
penalty provisions are indexed for inflation for
Publication 557 (1-2025)

returns required to be filed after December 31,
2014.

for more details. See also Small Business
Health Care Tax Credit.

Exception for reasonable cause. No penalty will be imposed if reasonable cause for failure to file timely can be shown.

Trust fund recovery penalty. If any person required to collect, truthfully account for, and pay
over any of these taxes willfully fails to satisfy
any of these requirements or willfully tries in any
way to evade or defeat any of them, that person
will be subject to a penalty. The penalty is equal
to the tax evaded, not collected, or not accounted for and paid over. The term person includes:
• An officer or employee of a corporation, or
• A member or employee of a partnership.

Unrelated Business
Income Tax Return
Even though your organization is recognized as
tax exempt, it still may be liable for tax on its unrelated business income. Unrelated business
income is income from a trade or business, regularly carried on, that isn't substantially related
to the charitable, educational, or other purpose
that is the basis for the organization's exemption.
If your organization has gross income of
$1,000 or more from a regularly conducted unrelated trade or business, you must file Form
990-T in addition to your required annual information return or notice. The form instructions
and IRS.gov should be consulted for electronic
filing guidance. For tax years beginning after
December 31, 2017, an organization with more
than one unrelated trade or business must compute its UBTI (unrelated business taxable income), including for purposes of determining
any net operating loss deduction, separately
with respect to each such trade or business. Organizations complete a separate Schedule A
(Form 990-T) to calculate UBTI for each of its
trades or businesses.
Estimated tax. An organization that expects to owe $500 or more in tax (including tax
on unrelated business income) is required to
make quarterly estimated tax payments. Use
Form 990-W to figure your organization's estimated tax payments. Failure to make appropriate quarterly estimated tax payments may result
in an underpayment penalty.
See Publication 598, Tax on Unrelated Business Income of Exempt Organizations for more
information on UBTI.

Employment
Tax Returns
Every employer, including an organization exempt from federal income tax that pays wages
to employees is responsible for withholding, depositing, paying, and reporting federal income
tax, social security and Medicare (FICA) taxes,
and federal unemployment tax (FUTA), unless
that employer is specifically excepted by law
from those requirements, or if the taxes clearly
don't apply.
For more information, obtain a copy of Publication 15, which summarizes the responsibilities of an employer, Publication 15-A, Publication 15-B, and Form 941.
Small Business Health Care Tax Credit. If
your small tax-exempt organization provides
health care coverage for your workers you may
qualify for the small business health care tax
credit. Go to Affordable Care Act Tax Provisions

Chapter 2

Exception. The penalty isn't imposed on
any unpaid volunteer director or member of a
board of trustees of an exempt organization if
the unpaid volunteer serves solely in an honorary capacity, doesn't participate in the
day-to-day or financial operations of the organization, and doesn't have actual knowledge of
the failure on which the penalty is imposed.
This exception doesn't apply if it results in no
one being liable for the penalty.
Certification Program for Professional Employer Organizations (CPEOs). The Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014, enacted Dec.
19, 2014, requires the IRS to establish a voluntary certification program for professional employer organizations (PEOs). PEOs handle various payroll administration and tax reporting
responsibilities for their business clients and are
typically paid a fee based on payroll costs. For
further information, go to: IRS.gov/for-tax-pros/
basic-tools/certified-professional-employerorganization.
FICA and FUTA tax exceptions. Payments for
services performed by a minister of a church in
the exercise of the ministry, or a member of a religious order performing duties required by the
order, are generally not subject to FICA or FUTA
taxes.
FUTA tax exception. Payments for services performed by an employee of a religious,
charitable, educational, or other organization
described in section 501(c)(3) that are generally
subject to FICA taxes if the payments are $100
or more for the year, aren't subject to FUTA
taxes. However, a section 501(c)(3) organization is liable for FUTA tax when paying wages
for employees on behalf of others, examples include but are not limited to related non-section
501(c)(3) organizations, fiscal agents such as
IRC 3504, common paymaster, etc.
FICA tax exemption election. Churches
and qualified church-controlled organizations
can elect exemption from employer FICA taxes
by filing Form 8274.
To elect the exemption, Form 8274 must be
filed before the first date on which a quarterly
employment tax return would otherwise be due
from the electing organization. The organization
can make the election only if it is opposed for
religious reasons to the payment of FICA taxes.
The election applies to payments for services of current and future employees other than
services performed in an unrelated trade or
business.
Revoking the election. The election can
be revoked by the IRS if the organization fails to
file Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, for 2

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

13

years and fails to furnish certain information
upon request by the IRS. Such revocation will
apply retroactively to the beginning of the 2-year
period.
Definitions. For purposes of this election,
the term church means a church, a convention
or association of churches, or an elementary or
secondary school that is controlled, operated,
or principally supported by a church or by a
convention or association of churches.
The term qualified church-controlled organization means any church-controlled section
501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization, other than
an organization that both:
1. Offers goods, services, or facilities for
sale, other than on an incidental basis, to
the general public at other than a nominal
charge that is substantially less than the
cost of providing such goods, services, or
facilities; and
2. Normally receives more than 25% of its
support from the sum of governmental
sources and receipts from admissions,
sales of merchandise, performance of
services, or furnishing of facilities, in activities that aren't unrelated trades or businesses.
Effect on employees. If a church or qualified church-controlled organization has made
an election, payment for services performed for
that church or organization, other than in an unrelated trade or business, won't be subject to
FICA taxes. However, the employee, unless otherwise exempt, will be subject to self-employment tax on the income. The tax applies to income of $108.28 or more for the tax year from
that church or organization, and no deductions
for trade or business expenses are allowed
against this self-employment income.
Schedule SE (Form 1040), Self-Employment
Tax, should be attached to the employee's income tax return.

Political Organization
Income Tax Return

political

organization

that

has

TIP $25,000 ($100,000 for a qualified state

or local political organization) or more
in gross receipts for the tax year must file Form
990 or Form 990-EZ (and Schedule B of the
form), unless excepted. See Forms 990 and
990-EZ, earlier.
Political organization. A political organization
is a party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) organized and operated primarily for the purpose
of directly or indirectly accepting contributions
or making expenditures, or both, for an exempt
function.
14

Certain political organizations are required to notify the IRS that they are
CAUTION section 527 organizations. These organizations must use Form 8871. Some of
these section 527 organizations must use Form
8872 to file periodic reports with the IRS disclosing their contributions and expenditures. For
a discussion on these forms, see Reporting Requirements for a Political Organization, later.

!

Political organization taxable income.
Political organization taxable income is the excess of:
1. Gross income for the tax year (excluding
exempt function income) minus
2. Deductions directly connected with the
earning of gross income.
To figure taxable income, allow for a $100 specific deduction, but don't allow for the net operating loss deduction, the dividends-received deduction, and other special deductions for
corporations.
Exempt organization not a political organization. An organization exempt under section
501(c) that spends any amount for an exempt
function must file Form 1120-POL for any year
in which it has political taxable income. These
organizations must include in gross income the
lesser of:
1. The total amount of its exempt function expenditures, or
2. The organization's net investment income.

Generally, a political organization is treated as
an organization exempt from tax. Certain political organizations, however, must file an annual
income tax return, Form 1120-POL, U.S. Income Tax Return for Certain Political Organizations, for any year they have political organization taxable income in excess of the $100
specific deduction allowed under section 527.
A

Exempt function. An exempt function
means influencing or attempting to influence the
selection, nomination, election, or appointment
of any individual to any federal, state, local public office or office in a political organization, or
the election of the Presidential or Vice Presidential electors, whether or not such individual
or electors are selected, nominated, elected, or
appointed. It also includes certain office expenses of a holder of public office or an office in a
political organization.

Separate fund. A section 501(c) organization can set up a separate segregated fund that
will be treated as an independent political organization. The earnings and expenditures
made by the separate fund won't be attributed
to the section 501(c) organization.
Section 501(c)(3) organizations are
precluded from, and may suffer loss of
CAUTION exemption for, engaging in any political
campaign on behalf of, or in opposition to, any
candidate for public office.

!

Due date. Form 1120-POL is due by the 15th
day of the 4th month after the end of the tax
year. Thus, for a calendar year taxpayer, Form
1120-POL is due on April 15 of the following
year. If any due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the organization can file
the return on the next business day.
Form 1120-POL is not required of an

TIP exempt organization that makes expen-

ditures for political purposes if its gross
income doesn't exceed its directly connected
deductions by more than $100 for the tax year.

Chapter 2

Extension of time to file. Use Form 7004 to
request an automatic extension of time to file
Form 1120-POL. The extension will be granted
if you complete Form 7004 properly, make a
proper estimate of the tax (if applicable), file
Form 1120-POL by the due date, and pay any
tax due.
Failure to file. A political organization that
fails to file Form 1120-POL is subject to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each month
(or partial month) the return is late up to a maximum of 25% of the tax due, unless the organization shows the failure was due to reasonable
cause.
For more information about filing Form
1120-POL, refer to the instructions accompanying the form.
Failure to pay on time. An organization
that doesn't pay the tax when due generally
may have to pay a penalty of 1/2 of 1% of the
unpaid tax for each month or part of a month
the tax isn't paid, up to a maximum of 25% of
the unpaid tax. The penalty won't be imposed if
the organization can show that the failure to pay
on time was due to reasonable cause.

Reporting Requirements
for a Political
Organization
Certain political organizations are required to
notify the IRS that the organization is to be treated as a section 527 political organization. The
organization is also required to periodically report certain contributions received and expenditures made by the organization. To notify the
IRS of section 527 treatment, an organization
must file Form 8871. To report contributions and
expenditures, certain tax-exempt political organizations must file Form 8872.

Form 8871
A political organization must electronically file
Form 8871 to notify the IRS that it is to be treated as a section 527 organization. However, an
organization isn't required to file Form 8871 if:
• It reasonably expects its annual gross receipts to always be less than $25,000.
• It is a political committee required to report
under the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (FECA) (52 U.S.C. section 30101
et seq.).
• It is a state or local candidate committee.
• It is a state or local committee of a political
party.
All other political organizations are required to
file Form 8871.
An organization must provide on Form 8871:
1. Its name and address (including any business address, if different) and its electronic mailing address;
2. Its purpose;
3. The names and addresses of its officers,
highly compensated employees, contact
person, custodian of records, and
members of its board of directors;

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

Publication 557 (1-2025)

4. The name and address of, and relationship to, any related entities (within the
meaning of section 168(h)(4)); and

$10,000 ($50,000 in the case of a corporation)
or imprisoned for not more than 1 year or both.

5. Whether it intends to claim an exemption
from filing Form 8872, Form 990, or Form
990-EZ.
Employer identification number. If your
organization needs an EIN, you can apply for
one online. Click on the Employer ID Numbers
(EINs) link at IRS.gov/businesses/small.
If you previously applied for an EIN and
haven't yet received it, or you are unsure
whether you have an EIN, please call our
toll-free customer account services number,
1-877-829-5500, for assistance.
Due dates. The initial Form 8871 must be filed
within 24 hours of the date on which the organization was established. If there is a material
change, an amended Form 8871 must be filed
within 30 days of the material change. When the
organization terminates its existence, it must file
a final Form 8871 within 30 days of termination.
If the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday,
or legal holiday, the organization can file on the
next business day.
How to file. An organization must file Form
8871 electronically via the IRS Internet website
at IRS.gov/polorgs.
Form 8453-X, Political Organization Declaration for Electronic Filing of Notice of Section 527 Status. After electronically submitting
the initial Form 8871, the political organization
must print, sign, and mail Form 8453-X to the
IRS. Upon receipt of the Form 8453-X, the IRS
will send the organization a username and
password that must be used to file an amended
or final Form 8871 or to electronically file Form
8872.

Penalties
Failure to file. An organization that is required to file Form 8871, but fails to do so on a
timely basis, won't be treated as a tax-exempt
section 527 organization for any period before
the date Form 8871 is filed. Also, the taxable income of the organization for that period will include its exempt function income (including
contributions received, membership dues, and
political fundraising receipts) minus any deductions directly connected with the production of
that income.
Failure to file an amended Form 8871 will
cause the organization to not be treated as a
tax-exempt section 527 organization. If an organization is treated as not being a tax-exempt
section 527 organization, the taxable income of
the organization will be determined by considering any exempt function income and deductions
during the period beginning on the date of the
material change and ending on the date that the
amended Form 8871 is filed.
The tax is computed by multiplying the organization's taxable income by the highest corporate tax rate.
Fraudulent returns. Any individual or corporation that willfully delivers or discloses to the
IRS any list, return, account, statement or other
document known to be fraudulent or false as to
any material matter will be fined not more than
Publication 557 (1-2025)

Waiver of penalties. The IRS may waive
any additional tax assessed on an organization
for failure to file Form 8871 if the failure was due
to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.
Additional information. For more information
on Form 8871, see the form and its instructions.
For a discussion on the public inspection requirements for the form, see Public Inspection
of Exemption Applications, Annual Returns, and
Political Organization Reporting Forms, later.

Form 8872
Every tax-exempt section 527 political organization that accepts a contribution or makes an expenditure, for an exempt function during the calendar year, must file Form 8872 except:
• A political organization that isn't required to
file Form 8871 (discussed earlier).
• A political organization that is subject to tax
on its income because it didn't file or
amend Form 8871.
• A qualified state or local political organization (QSLPO), discussed below.
All other tax-exempt section 527 organizations
that accept contributions or make expenditures
for an exempt function are required to file Form
8872.
Qualified state or local political organization. A state or local political organization
may be a QSLPO if:
1. All of its political activities relate solely to
state or local public office (or office in a
state or local political organization).
2. It is subject to a state law that requires it to
report (and it does report) to a state
agency information about contributions
and expenditures that is similar to the information that the organization would otherwise be required to report to the IRS.

Due dates. The due dates for filing Form 8872
vary depending on whether the form is due for a
reporting period that occurs during a calendar
year in which a regularly scheduled election is
held, or any other calendar year (a nonelection
year).
If the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday,
or legal holiday, the organization can file on the
next business day.
Election year filing. In election years, Form
8872 must be filed on either a quarterly or a
monthly basis. Both a pre-election report and a
post-election report are also required to be filed
in an election year. An election year is any year
in which a regularly scheduled general election
for federal office is held (an even-numbered
year).
Nonelection year filing. In nonelection years,
the form must be filed on a semiannual or
monthly basis. A complete listing of these filing
periods are in the Form 8872 instructions. A
nonelection year is any odd-numbered year.
How to file. An organization must file Form
8872 electronically if reporting on periods after
2019. For reporting on periods before 2020,
Form 8872 can be filed either electronically or
by mail, but organizations that have, or expect
to have, contributions or expenditures of
$50,000 or more for the year are required to file
electronically.
Electronic filing. File electronically via the
IRS internet website at IRS.gov/polorgs. You will
need a user ID and password to electronically
file Form 8872. Organizations that have completed the electronic filing of Form 8871 and submitted a completed and signed Form 8453-X
will receive a username and password in the
mail.
Organizations that have completed the electronic filing of Form 8871, but haven't received
their user ID and password can request one by
writing to the following address:
Internal Revenue Service
Attn: Request for 8872 Password
Mail Stop 6273
Ogden, UT 84201

3. The state agency and the organization
make the reports publicly available.
4. No federal candidate or office holder:
a. Controls or materially participates in
the direction of the organization,
b. Solicits contributions for the organization, or
c. Directs the disbursements of the organization.
Information required on Form 8872. If an organization pays an individual $500 or more for
the calendar year, the organization is required
to disclose the individual's name, address, occupation, employer, amount of the expense, the
date the expense was paid, and the purpose of
the expense on Form 8872.
If an organization receives contributions of
$200 or more from one contributor for the calendar year, the organization must disclose the donor's name, address, occupation, employer,
and the date the contributions were made.
For additional information that is required,
see Form 8872.

Chapter 2

Lost username and password. If you
have forgotten or misplaced the username and
password issued to your organization after you
filed your initial Form 8871, send a letter requesting a new username and password to the
address under Electronic filing. You can also fax
your request to (801) 620-3249. It may take 3-6
weeks for your new username and password to
arrive, as they will be mailed to the organization.

Penalty
A penalty will be imposed if the organization is
required to file Form 8872 and it:
• Fails to file the form by the due date, or
• Files the form but fails to report all of the information required or reports incorrect information.
The penalty is 21% for tax years beginning
after December 31, 2017 (35% for tax years beginning before December 31 2017), of the total

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

15

amount of contributions and expenditures to
which a failure relates.
Fraudulent returns. Any individual or corporation that willfully delivers or discloses any
list, return, account, statement, or other document known to be fraudulent or false as to any
material matter will be fined not more than
$10,000 ($50,000 in the case of a corporation),
or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both.
Waiver of penalties. The IRS may waive
any additional tax assessed on an organization
for failure to file Form 8872 if the failure was due
to reasonable cause and not willful neglect.

Donee Information
Return
Dispositions of donated property. If an organization receives charitable deduction property and within 3 years sells, exchanges, or otherwise disposes of the property, the
organization must file Form 8282, Donee
Information Return. However, an organization
isn't required to file Form 8282 if:
• The property is valued at $500 or less, or
• The property is consumed or distributed for
charitable purposes.
Form 8282 must be filed with the IRS within
125 days after the disposition. Additionally, a
copy of Form 8282 must be given to the donor.
If the organization fails to file the required information return, penalties may apply.
Charitable deduction property. This is
any property (other than money or publicly traded securities) for which the donee organization
signed an appraisal summary or Form 8283,
Noncash Charitable Contributions.
Publicly traded securities. These are securities for which market quotations are readily
available on an established securities market as
of the date of the contribution.
Appraisal summary. If the value of the donated property exceeds $5,000, the donor must
get a qualified appraisal for contributions of
property, see Exceptions, below.
Exceptions. A written appraisal isn't needed if the property is:
• Nonpublicly traded stock of $10,000 or
less;
• A vehicle (including a car, boat, or airplane), if your deduction for the vehicle is
limited to the gross proceeds from its sale;
• Intellectual property;
• Certain securities considered to have market quotations readily available (see Regulations section 1.170A-13(c)(7)(xi)(B));
• Inventory and other property donated by a
corporation that are qualified contributions
for the care of the ill, the needy, or infants,
within the meaning of section 170(e)(3)(A),
or
• Any donation of stock in trade, inventory, or
property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of your trade or
business.
The donee organization isn't a qualified appraiser for the purpose of valuing the donated
16

property. For more information, get Publication
561, Determining the Value of Donated Property.
Form 8283. For noncash donations over
$5,000, the donor must attach Form 8283 to the
tax return to support the charitable deduction.
The donee must sign Part IV of Section B, Form
8283 unless publicly traded securities are donated. The person who signs for the donee must
be an official authorized to sign the donee's tax
or information returns, or a person specifically
authorized to sign by that official. The signature
doesn't represent concurrence in the appraised
value of the contributed property. A signed acknowledgment represents receipt of the property described on Form 8283 on the date specified on the form. The signature also indicates
knowledge of the information reporting requirements on dispositions, as previously discussed.
A copy of Form 8283 must be given to the donee.

Information Provided to
Donors
In some situations, a donor must obtain certain
information from a donee organization to obtain
a deduction for a charitable contribution. In
other situations, the donee organization is required to provide information to the donor.
A charitable organization must give a donor
a disclosure statement for a quid pro quo contribution over $75. (See Disclosure statement.,
later) This is a payment a donor makes to a
charity partly as a contribution and partly for
goods or services. See Quid pro quo contribution below for an example.
Failure to make the required disclosure may
result in a penalty to the organization. A donor
can't deduct a charitable contribution of $250 or
more unless the donor has a written acknowledgment from the charitable organization.
In certain circumstances, an organization
may be able to meet both of these requirements
with the same written document.

Disclosure of
Quid Pro Quo Contributions
A charitable organization must provide a written
disclosure statement to donors of a quid pro
quo contribution over $75.

payment isn't more than $75, a written statement must be filed because the total payment is
more than $75. If your organization fails to disclose quid pro quo contributions, the organization may be subject to a penalty.
Disclosure statement. The required written
disclosure statement must:
1. Inform the donor that the amount of the
contribution that is deductible for federal
income tax purposes is limited to the excess of any money (and the value of any
property other than money) contributed by
the donor over the fair market value of
goods or services provided by the charity,
and
2. Provide the donor with a good faith estimate of the fair market value of the goods
or services that the donor received.
The charity must furnish the statement in connection with either the solicitation or the receipt
of the quid pro quo contribution. If the disclosure statement is furnished in connection with a
particular solicitation, it isn't necessary for the
organization to provide another statement when
it actually receives the contribution.
No disclosure statement is required if any of
the following are true.
1. The goods or services given to a donor
have insubstantial value, as described in
Rev. Proc. 90-12, 1990-1 C.B. 471, Rev.
Proc. 90-12, and Rev. Proc. 92-49, 1992-1
C.B. 507 (as adjusted for inflation), Rev.
Proc. 92-49.
2. There is no donative element involved in a
particular transaction with a charity (for example, there is generally no donative element involved in a visitor's purchase from
a museum gift shop).
3. There is only an intangible religious benefit
provided to the donor. The intangible religious benefit must be provided to the donor by an organization organized exclusively for religious purposes, and must be
of a type that generally isn't sold in a commercial transaction outside the donative
context. For example, a donor who, for a
payment, is granted admission to a religious ceremony for which there is no admission charge is provided an intangible
religious benefit. A donor isn't provided intangible religious benefits for payments
made for tuition for education leading to a
recognized degree, travel services, or consumer goods.

Quid pro quo contribution. A contribution
made by a donor in exchange for goods or services is known as a quid pro quo contribution.
Your charitable organization must provide the
donor a written statement informing the donor of
the fair market value of the items or services it
provided in exchange for the contribution. Generally, a written statement is required for each
payment, whenever the contribution portion is
over $75.

4. The donor makes a payment of $75 or less
per year and receives only annual membership benefits that consist of:

Example. If a donor gives your charity $100
and receives a concert ticket valued at $40, the
donor has made a quid pro quo contribution. In
this example, the charitable part of the payment
is $60. Even though the deductible part of the

b. Admission to events that are open
only to members and the cost per person of which is within the limits for
low-cost articles described in Rev.

Chapter 2

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

a. Any rights or privileges (other than the
right to purchase tickets for college
athletic events) that the taxpayer can
exercise often during the membership
period, such as free or discounted admissions or parking or preferred access to goods or services; or

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Proc. 90-12 (as adjusted for inflation),
Rev. Proc. 90-12.
Good faith estimate of fair market value
(FMV). An organization can use any reasonable method to estimate the FMV of goods or
services it provided to a donor, as long as it applies the method in good faith.
The organization can estimate the FMV of
goods or services that generally aren't commercially available by using the FMV of similar or
comparable goods or services. Goods or services may be similar or comparable even if they
don't have the unique qualities of the goods or
services being valued.
Example 1. A charity provides a 1-hour tennis lesson with a tennis professional for the first
$500 payment it receives. The tennis professional provides 1-hour lessons on a commercial
basis for $100. A good faith estimate of the lesson's FMV is $100.
Example 2. For a payment of $50,000, a
museum allows a donor to hold a private event
in a room of the museum. A good faith estimate
of the FMV of the right to hold the event in the
museum can be made by using the cost of renting a hotel ballroom with a capacity, amenities,
and atmosphere comparable to the museum
room, even though the hotel ballroom lacks the
unique art displayed in the museum room. If the
hotel ballroom rents for $2,500, a good faith estimate of the FMV of the right to hold the event
in the museum is $2,500.
Example 3. For a payment of $1,000, a
charity provides an evening tour of a museum
conducted by a well-known artist. The artist
doesn't provide tours on a commercial basis.
Tours of the museum normally are free to the
public. A good faith estimate of the FMV of the
evening museum tour is $0 even though it is
conducted by the artist.
Penalty for failure to disclose. A penalty is
imposed on a charity that doesn't make the required disclosure of a quid pro quo contribution
of more than $75. The penalty is $10 per contribution, not to exceed $5,000 per fundraising
event or mailing. The charity can avoid the penalty if it can show that the failure was due to reasonable cause.

Acknowledgment of
Charitable Contributions of
$250 or More
A donor can deduct a charitable contribution of
$250 or more only if the donor has a written acknowledgment from the charitable organization.
The donor must get the acknowledgment by the
earlier of:
1. The date the donor files the original return
for the year the contribution is made, or
2. The due date, including extensions, for filing the return.
The donor is responsible for requesting and obtaining the written acknowledgment from the
donee. A charitable organization that receives a
payment made as a contribution is treated as
the donee organization for this purpose even if
Publication 557 (1-2025)

the organization (according to the donor's instructions or otherwise) distributes the amount
received to one or more charities.
Quid pro quo contribution. If the donee provides goods or services to the donor in exchange for the contribution (a quid pro quo contribution), the acknowledgment must include a
good faith estimate of the value of the goods or
services. See Disclosure of Quid Pro Quo Contributions, earlier.
Form of acknowledgment. Although there is
no prescribed format for the written acknowledgment, it must provide enough information to
substantiate the amount of the contribution. For
more information, see Publication 1771, Charitable Contributions – Substantiation and Disclosure Requirements.
Cash contributions. To deduct a contribution of cash, a check, or other monetary gift (regardless of the amount), a donor must maintain
a bank record or a written communication from
the donee organization showing the donee's
name, date, and amount of the contribution. In
the case of a lump-sum contribution (rather than
a contribution by payroll deduction) made
through the Combined Federal Campaign or a
similar program such as a United Way Campaign, the written communication must include
the name of the donee organization that is the
ultimate recipient of the charitable contribution.
Contributions by payroll deduction. An
organization may substantiate an employee's
contribution by deduction from its payroll by:
• A pay stub, Form W-2, or other document
showing a contribution to a donee organization, together with
• A pledge card or other document from the
donee organization that shows its name.
For contributions of $250 or more, the document must state that the donee organization
provides no goods or services for any payroll
contributions. The amount withheld from each
payment of wages to a taxpayer is treated as a
separate contribution.

Acknowledgment of Vehicle
Contribution
If an exempt organization receives a contribution of a qualified vehicle with a claimed value of
more than $500, the donee organization is required to provide a contemporaneous written
acknowledgment to the donor. The donee organization can use a completed Form 1098-C,
Contributions of Motor Vehicles, Boats, and Airplanes, for the contemporaneous written acknowledgment. See section 3.03 of Notice
2005-44, 2005-25 I.R.B. 1287 for guidance on
the information that must be included in a contemporaneous written acknowledgment and the
deadline for furnishing the acknowledgment to
the donor.
Any donee organization that provides a contemporaneous written acknowledgment to a donor is required to report to the IRS the information contained in the acknowledgment. The
report is due by February 28 (March 31 if filing
electronically) of the year following the year in
which the donee organization provides the

Chapter 2

acknowledgment to the donor. The organization
must file the report on Copy A of Form 1098-C.
An organization that files Form 1098-C on
paper should send it with Form 1096, Annual
Summary and Transmittal of U.S. Information
Returns. See the Instructions for Form 1096 for
the correct filing location.
An organization that is required to file 250 or
more Forms 1098-C during the calendar year
must file the forms electronically or magnetically. Specifications for filing Form 1098-C electronically or magnetically can be found in Publication 1220, Specifications for Filing Forms
1097, 1098, 1099, 3921, 3922, 5498, 8935, and
W-2G Electronically at Pub. 1220.

Acknowledgment
For a contribution of a qualified vehicle
with a claimed value of $500 or less,
CAUTION don't file Form 1098-C. However, you
can use it as the contemporaneous written acknowledgment under section 170(f)(8) by providing the donor with Copy C only. See the Instructions for Form 1098-C.

!

Generally, the organization should complete
Form 1098-C as the written acknowledgment to
the donor and the IRS. The contents of the acknowledgment depend upon whether the organization:
• Sells a qualified vehicle without any significant intervening use or material improvement,
• Intends to make a significant intervening
use of or material improvement to a qualified vehicle prior to sale, or
• Sells a qualified vehicle to a needy individual at a price significantly below fair market
value, or a gratuitous transfer to a needy
individual in direct furtherance of a charitable purpose of the organization of relieving
the poor and distressed or the underprivileged who are in need of a means of transportation.
For more information on the acknowledgment, see Notice 2005-44.
Material improvements or significant intervening use. To constitute significant intervening use, the organization must actually use the
vehicle to substantially further the organization's
regularly conducted activities, and the use must
be significant, not incidental. Factors in determining whether a use is a significant intervening
use depend on the nature, extent, frequency,
and duration. For this purpose, use includes
providing transportation on a regular basis for a
significant period of time or significant use directly related to training in vehicle repair. Use
doesn't include the use of a vehicle to provide
training in business skills, such as marketing or
sales. Examples of significant use include:
• Driving a vehicle every day for 1 year to deliver meals to needy individuals, if delivering meals is an activity regularly conducted
by the organization.
• Driving a vehicle for 10,000 miles over a
1-year period to deliver meals to needy individuals, if delivering meals is an activity
regularly conducted by the organization.

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

17

Material improvements include major repairs
and additions that improve the condition of the
vehicle in a manner that significantly increases
the value. To be a material improvement, the improvement can't be funded by an additional payment to the organization from the donor of the
vehicle. Material improvements don't include
cleaning, minor repairs, routine maintenance,
painting, removal of dents or scratches, cleaning or repair of upholstery, and installation of
theft deterrent devices.

the time of the contribution that the donor intends to treat the contribution as qualified intellectual property contribution for purposes of
sections 170(m) and 6050L.

Penalties. If your charitable organization receives contributions of used motor vehicles,
boats, and airplanes valued over $500, it may
be subject to a penalty if it knowingly:
• Fails to furnish an acknowledgement in a
timely manner, showing the required information; or
• Furnishes a false or fraudulent acknowledgement of the contribution.

Form 8899. Form 8899, Notice of Income from
Donated Intellectual Property, is used by a donee to report net income from qualified intellectual property to the donor of the property and to
the IRS and is due by the last day of the first full
month following the close of the donee’s tax
year. This form must be filed for each tax year of
the donee in which the donated property produces net income, but only if all or part of that tax
year occurs during the 10-year period beginning
on the date of the contribution and that tax year
doesn't begin after the expiration of the legal life
of the donated property.

!

CAUTION

Other penalties may apply. See Part O
in the current General Instructions for
Certain Information Returns.

An acknowledgment containing a certification will be presumed to be false or fraudulent if
the qualified vehicle is sold to a buyer other
than a needy individual without a significant intervening use or material improvement within 6
months of the date of the contribution.
If a charity sells a donated vehicle at auction, the IRS won't accept as substantiation an
acknowledgment from the charity stating that
the vehicle is to be transferred to a needy individual for significantly below fair market value.
Vehicles sold at auction aren't sold at prices significantly below fair market value, and the IRS
won't treat vehicles sold at auction as qualifying
for this exception.
The penalty for a false or fraudulent acknowledgment where the donee certifies that
the vehicle won't be transferred for money, other
property, or services before completion of material improvements or significant intervening use
or the donee certifies that the vehicle is to be
transferred to a needy individual for significantly
below fair market value in furtherance of the donee's charitable purpose is the larger of $5,000
or the claimed value of the vehicle multiplied by
39.6%.
The penalty for an acknowledgment relating
to a qualified vehicle being sold in an arm's
length transaction to an unrelated party is the
larger of the gross proceeds from the sale or the
sales price stated in the acknowledgment multiplied by 39.6%.

Qualified donee income. Qualified donee income is any net income received by or accrued
to the donee that is properly allocable to the
qualified intellectual property for the tax year of
the donee which ends within or with the tax year
of the donor. Income isn't treated as allocated to
qualified intellectual property if it is received or
accrued after the earlier of the expiration of the
legal life of the qualified intellectual property, or
the 10-year period beginning with the date of
the contribution.
Qualified intellectual property. Qualified intellectual property is generally any patent, copyright, trademark, trade name, trade secret,
know-how, software or similar property, or applications or registrations of such property (other
than property contributed to or for the use of a
private foundation, as defined in section 509(a)
that isn't described in section
170(b)(1)(F)). See Exceptions below.
Exceptions. The following property isn't
considered qualified intellectual property for
purposes of the additional charitable deduction:
1. Computer software that is readily available
for purchase by the general public, is subject to a nonexclusive license, and has not
been substantially modified.
2. A copyright held by a taxpayer:

• Whose personal efforts created the property, or

Qualified Intellectual
Property

• In whose hands the basis of the property is

A taxpayer who contributes qualified intellectual
property to a charity may be entitled to a charitable deduction, in addition to any initial deduction allowed in the year of contribution. The additional deduction is based on a specified
percentage of the qualified donee income with
respect to the qualified intellectual property. To
qualify for the additional charitable deduction,
the donor must provide notice to the donee at

18

Every donee organization described in section 170(c) (except a private foundation, as defined in section 509(a), that isn't described in
section 170(b)(1)(F)) that receives or accrues
net income from a charitable gift of qualified intellectual property must file Form 8899.

determined, for purposes of determining
gain from a sale or exchange, in whole or
in part by reference to the basis of the
property in the hands of a taxpayer whose
personal efforts created the property.

Report of Cash Received
An exempt organization that receives, in the
course of its activities, more than $10,000 cash
in one transaction (or two or more related transactions) that isn't a charitable contribution must
report the transaction to the IRS on Form 8300,

Chapter 2

Report of Cash Payments Over $10,000 Received in a Trade or Business.

Public Inspection
of Exemption
Applications, Annual
Returns, and Political
Organization Reporting
Forms
The general rule under section 6103 is that returns and return information of all taxpayers are
confidential except as authorized under the
Code. Section 6104 provides exceptions to the
general rule of confidentiality for disclosure of
certain information about exempt organizations.
In addition, included in this section is a discussion on the public inspection requirements
for political organizations filing Forms 8871 and
8872.

Annual Information Return
An exempt organization must make available for
public inspection, upon request and without
charge, a copy of its original and amended annual information returns. Each information return must be made available from the date it is
required to be filed (determined with regard to
any extensions), or is actually filed, whichever is
later. An original return doesn't have to be made
available if more than 3 years have passed from
the date the return was required to be filed (including any extensions) or was filed, whichever
is later. An amended return doesn't have to be
made available if more than 3 years have
passed from the date it was filed.
An annual information return includes an exact copy of the return (Forms 990, 990-EZ,
990-BL, 990-PF, 990-T, or 1065), and amended
return, if any, and all schedules, attachments,
and supporting documents filed with the IRS.
An annual information return doesn't include:
• Schedule A of Form 990-BL,
• Schedule K-1 of Form 1065, or
• Form 1120-POL.
In the case of a tax-exempt organization
other than a private foundation, an annual information return doesn't include the names and
addresses of contributors to the organization.
Form 990-T. All section 501(c)(3) organizations that file Form 990-T must
CAUTION make the return public, regardless of
whether the organization is otherwise subject to
the disclosure requirements of section 6104.
For example, although churches aren't required
to file Form 1023 or Form 990 with the IRS, they
must file the Form 990-T with the IRS to report
unrelated business taxable income. Thus,
churches must disclose Form 990-T to the public.

!

State colleges and universities that have
been recognized by the IRS as exempt under
section 501(a) as organizations described in

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

Publication 557 (1-2025)

section 501(c)(3) must disclose Form 990-T to
the public. However, state colleges and universities that are subject to tax under section
511(a) solely by virtue of section 511(a)(2)(B)
and that haven't been recognized by the IRS as
exempt under section 501(a) as organizations
described in section 501(c)(3) aren't required to
make their Forms 990-T public.

Public Inspection of
Exemption Application
An exempt organization must also make available for public inspection, without charge, its application for tax-exempt status. An application
for tax exemption includes the application form
(such as Forms 1023 or 1024), all documents
and statements the IRS requires the organization to file with the form, any statement or other
supporting document submitted by an organization in support of its application, and any letter
or other document issued by the IRS concerning the application.
The application for exemption doesn't include:
• Any application from an organization that
isn't yet recognized as exempt;
• Any material that is required to be withheld
from public inspection, see Material required to be withheld from public inspection, next;
• In the case of a tax-exempt organization
other than a private foundation, the names
and addresses of contributors to the organization; or
• Any applications filed before July 15, 1987,
if the organization didn't have a copy of the
application on July 15, 1987.
If there is no prescribed application form,
see Regulations section 301.6104(d)-1(b)(3)(ii)
for a list of the documents that must be made
available.
Material required to be withheld from
public inspection. Material that is required to
be withheld from public inspection includes:
• Trade secrets, patents, processes, styles
of work, or apparatus for which withholding
was requested and granted;
• National defense material;
• Unfavorable rulings or determination letters
issued in response to applications for tax
exemption;
• Rulings or determination letters revoking or
modifying a favorable determination letter;
• Technical advice memoranda relating to a
disapproved application for tax exemption
or the revocation or modification of a favorable determination letter;
• Any letter or document filed with or issued
by the IRS relating to whether a proposed
or accomplished transaction is a prohibited
transaction under section 503; and
• Any other letter or document filed with or
issued by the IRS which, although it relates
to an organization's tax-exempt status as
an organization described in section 501(c)
or 501(d), doesn't relate to that organization's application for tax exemption.
Time, place, and manner restrictions. The
annual returns and exemption application must
be made available for inspection, without
Publication 557 (1-2025)

charge, at the organization's principal, regional,
and district offices during regular business
hours. The organization can have an employee
present during inspection, but must allow the individual to take notes freely and to photocopy at
no charge if the individual provides the photocopying equipment. Generally, regional and district offices are those that have paid employees
who together are normally paid for at least 120
hours a week.
If the organization doesn't maintain a permanent office, it must make its application for tax
exemption and its annual information returns
available for inspection at a reasonable location
of its choice. It must permit public inspection
within a reasonable amount of time after receiving a request for inspection (normally not more
than 2 weeks) and at a reasonable time of day.
At its option, it can mail, within 2 weeks of receiving the request, a copy of its application for
tax exemption and annual information returns to
the requester in lieu of allowing an inspection.
The organization can charge the requester for
copying and actual postage costs only if the requester consents to the charge.
An organization that has a permanent office,
but has no office hours or very limited hours
during certain times of the year, must make its
documents available during those periods when
office hours are limited or not available as
though it were an organization without a permanent office.
Furnishing copies. An exempt organization
must also provide a copy of all, or any specific
part or schedule, of its three most recent annual
information returns and/or exemption application to anyone who requests a copy either in
person or in writing at its principal, regional, or
district office during regular business hours. If
the individual made the request in person, the
copy must be provided on the same business
day the request is made unless there are unusual circumstances. Unusual circumstances
are
defined
in
Regulations
section
301.6104(d)-1(d)(1)(ii).
The organization must honor a written request for a copy of documents or specific parts
or schedules of documents that are required to
be disclosed. However, this rule only applies if
the request:
• Is addressed to the exempt organization's
principal, regional, or district office;
• Is sent to that address by mail, electronic
mail (e-mail), facsimile (fax), or a private
delivery service approved by the IRS; and
• Gives the address to where the copy of the
document should be sent.
The organization must mail the copy within
30 days from the date it receives the request.
The organization can request payment in advance and must then provide the copies within
30 days from the date it receives payment.
Fees for copies. The organization can
charge a reasonable fee for providing copies. It
can charge no more for the copies than the per
page rate the IRS charges for providing copies.
The IRS can't charge more for copies than the
fees listed in the Freedom of Information Act
(FOIA) fee schedule. Although the IRS charges
no fee for the first 100 pages, the organization
can charge a fee for all copies. For noncommercial requesters, the FOIA schedule currently

Chapter 2

provides a rate of $0.10 per page for black and
white pages, and $0.20 per page for color pages. The organization can also charge the actual postage costs it pays to provide the copies.
Regional and district offices. Generally, the
same rules regarding public inspection and providing copies of applications and annual information returns that apply to a principal office of
an exempt organization also apply to its regional and district offices. However, a regional
or district office isn't required to make its annual
information return available for inspection or to
provide copies until 30 days after the date the
return is required to be filed (including any extensions) or is actually filed, whichever is later.
Local and subordinate organizations. A local or subordinate organization is an exempt organization that didn't file its own application for
tax exemption because it is covered by a group
exemption letter. Generally, a local or subordinate organization of an exempt organization
must, upon request, make available for public
inspection, or provide copies of:
1. The application submitted to the IRS by
the central or parent organization to obtain
the group exemption letter, and
2. Those documents which were submitted
by the central or parent organization to include the local or subordinate organization
in the group exemption letter.
However, if the central or parent organization
submits to the IRS a list or directory of local or
subordinate organizations covered by the group
exemption letter, the local or subordinate organization is required to provide only the application for the group exemption ruling and the pages of the list or directory that specifically refer
to it.
The local or subordinate organization must
permit public inspection or comply with a request for copies made in person, within a reasonable amount of time (normally not more than
2 weeks) after receiving a request made in person for public inspection or copies and at a reasonable time of day. In lieu of allowing an inspection, the local or subordinate organization
can mail a copy of the applicable documents to
the person requesting inspection within the
same time period. In that case, the organization
can charge the requester for copying and actual
postage costs only if the requester consents to
the charge. If the local or subordinate organization receives a written request for a copy of its
application for exemption, it must fulfill the request in the time and manner specified earlier.
The requester has the option of requesting
from the central or parent organization, at its
principal office, inspection or copies of the application for group exemption and the material
submitted by the central or parent organization
to include a local or subordinate organization in
the group ruling. If the central or parent organization submits to the IRS a list or directory of local or subordinate organizations covered by the
group exemption letter, it must make the list or
directory available for public inspection, but it is
required to provide copies only of those pages
of the list or directory that refer to particular local or subordinate organizations specified by
the requester. The central or parent

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

19

organization must fulfill such requests in the
time and manner specified earlier.
A local or subordinate organization that
doesn't file its own annual information return
(because it is affiliated with a central or parent
organization that files a group return) must, on
request, make available for public inspection, or
provide copies of, the group returns filed by the
central or parent organization. However, if the
group return includes separate schedules for
each local or subordinate organization included
in the group return, the local or subordinate organization receiving the request can omit any
schedules relating only to other organizations
included in the group return. The local or subordinate organization must permit public inspection, or comply with a request for copies made
in person, within a reasonable amount of time
(normally not more than 2 weeks) after receiving a request made in person for public inspection or copies and at a reasonable time of day.
In lieu of allowing an inspection, the local or
subordinate organization can mail a copy of the
applicable documents to the person requesting
inspection within the same time period. In this
case, the organization can charge the requester
for copying and actual postage costs only if the
requester consents to the charge. If the local or
subordinate organization receives a written request for a copy of its annual information return,
it must fulfill the request by providing a copy of
the group return in the time and manner specified earlier. The requester has the option of requesting from the central or parent organization,
at its principal office, inspection or copies of
group returns filed by the central or parent organization. The central or parent organization
must fulfill such requests in the time and manner specified earlier.
If an organization fails to comply, it may be liable for a penalty. See Penalties, later.
Making applications and annual information returns widely available. An exempt organization doesn't have to comply with requests
for copies of its annual information returns or
exemption application if it makes them widely
available. However, making these documents
widely available doesn't relieve the organization
from making its documents available for public
inspection.
The organization can make its application
and annual information returns widely available
by posting the application and annual information returns on the Internet. For the rules to follow so that the Internet posting will be considered widely available, see Regulations section
301.6104(d)-2(b).
If the organization has made its application
for tax exemption and/or annual information returns widely available, it must inform any individual requesting a copy where the documents are
available, including the website address on the
Internet, if applicable. If the request is made in
person, the notice must be provided immediately. If the request is made in writing, the notice
must be provided within 7 days.
Harassment campaign. If the tax-exempt organization is the subject of a harassment campaign, the organization may not have to fulfill requests for information. For more information,
see Regulations section 301.6104(d)-3.
20

Political Organization
Reporting Forms
Forms 8871 and 8872 (discussed earlier under
Reporting Requirements for a Political Organization) are open to public inspection.
Form 8871. Form 8871 (including any supporting papers), and any letter or other document the IRS issues with regard to Form 8871,
are open to public inspection online at IRS.gov/
polorgs.
Form 8872. Form 8872 (including Schedules A and B) are open to public inspection online at IRS.gov/polorgs.
Electronically filed Forms 8871 and 8872 are
available online 48 hours after the form has
been filed. Forms 8872 that are filed by mail are
available online after being imaged by the IRS.
These forms are considered widely available if
you provide the online address to the requester.
In addition, your organization must make a copy
of these materials available for public inspection
during regular business hours at the organization’s principal office and at each of its regional
or district offices having at least three paid employees.

Penalties
The penalty for failure to allow public inspection
of annual returns is $20 for each day the failure
continues. The maximum penalty on all persons
for failures involving any one return is $10,000.
The penalty for failure to allow public inspection of exemption applications is $20 for each
day the failure continues.
The penalty for willful failure to allow public
inspection of a return or exemption application
is $5,000 for each return or application. The
penalty also applies to a willful failure to provide
copies.
The penalty for failure to allow public inspection of a political organization's section 527 notice (Form 8871) is $20 for each day the failure
continues.
The penalty for failure to allow public inspection of a section 527 organization's contributions and expenditures report (Form 8872) is
$20 for each day the failure continues. The
maximum penalty on all persons for failures involving any one report is $10,000.

Required Disclosures
Certain exempt organizations must disclose to
the IRS or the public certain information about
their activities. Generally, an organization discloses this information by entering it on the appropriate lines of its annual return. In addition,
there are disclosure requirements for:
• Solicitation of nondeductible contributions,
• Sales of information or services that are
available free from the government,
• Dues paid to the organization that aren't
deductible because they are used for lobbying or political activities, and

Chapter 2

• Prohibited tax shelter transactions.

Solicitation of Nondeductible
Contributions
Solicitations for contributions or other payments
by certain exempt organizations (including lobbying groups and political action committees)
must include a statement that payments to
those organizations aren't deductible as charitable contributions for federal income tax purposes. The statement must be included in the
fundraising solicitation and be conspicuous and
easily recognizable.
Organizations subject to requirements. An
organization must follow these disclosure requirements if it is exempt under section 501(c),
other than section 501(c)(1), or under section
501(d), unless the organization is eligible to receive tax deductible charitable contributions under section 170(c). These requirements must
be followed by, among others:
1. Social welfare organizations (section
501(c)(4));
2. Labor unions (section 501(c)(5));
3. Trade associations (section 501(c)(6));
4. Social clubs (section 501(c)(7));
5. Fraternal organizations (section 501(c)(8)
and 501(c)(10)) (however, fraternal organizations described in section 170(c)(4)
must follow these requirements only for
solicitations for funds that are to be used
for noncharitable purposes not described
in section 170(c)(4));
6. Any political organization described in
section 527(e), including political campaign committees and political action
committees; and
7. Any organization not eligible to receive
tax-deductible contributions if the organization or a predecessor organization was,
at any time during the 5-year period ending on the date of the fundraising solicitation, an organization of the type to which
this disclosure requirement applies.
Fundraising solicitation. This disclosure requirement applies to a fundraising solicitation if
all of the following are true.
1. The organization soliciting the funds normally has gross receipts over $100,000
per year.
2. The solicitation is part of a coordinated
fundraising campaign that is soliciting
more than 10 persons during the year.
3. The solicitation is made in written or printed form, by television or radio, or by telephone.
Penalties. Failure by an organization to make
the required statement will result in a penalty of
$1,000 for each day the failure occurred, up to a
maximum penalty of $10,000 for a calendar
year. No penalty will be imposed if it is shown
that the failure was due to reasonable cause. If
the failure was due to intentional disregard of
the requirements, the penalty may be higher
and isn't subject to a maximum amount.

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Sales of Information or
Services Available Free from
Government
Certain organizations that offer to sell to individuals (or solicit money for) information or routine
services that could be readily obtained free (or
for a nominal fee) from the federal government
must include a statement that the information or
service can be so obtained. The statement
must be made in a conspicuous and easily recognized format when the organization makes an
offer or solicitation to sell the information or
service. Organizations affected are those exempt under section 501(c) or 501(d) and political organizations defined in section 527(e).
Penalty. A penalty is provided for failure to
comply with this requirement if the failure is due
to intentional disregard of the requirement. The
penalty is the greater of $1,000 for each day the
failure occurred, or 50% of the total cost of all
offers and solicitations that were made by the
organization the same day that it fails to meet
the requirement.

Dues Used for Lobbying
or Political Activities
Certain exempt organizations must notify anyone paying dues to the organization whether
any part of the dues isn't deductible because it
is related to lobbying or political activities.
An organization must provide the notice if it
is exempt from tax under section 501(a) and is
one of the following.
1. A social welfare organization described in
section 501(c)(4) that isn't a veterans' organization.
2. An agricultural or horticultural organization
described in section 501(c)(5).
3. A business league, chamber of commerce, real estate board, or other organization described in section 501(c)(6).
However, an organization described in (1), (2),
or (3) doesn't have to provide the notice if it establishes that substantially all the dues paid to it
aren't deductible anyway or if certain other conditions are met. For more information, see Rev.
Proc. 98-19, 1998-1 C.B. 547 (or later update).
If the organization doesn't provide the required notice, it may have to pay a tax that is reported on Form 990-T. But the tax doesn't apply
to any amount on which the section 527 tax has
been paid on Form 1120-POL. See Political Organization Income Tax Return, earlier.
For more information about nondeductible
dues, see Deduction not allowed for dues used
for political or legislative activities. under Section 501(c)(6) organizations, later.

shelter transaction is required to disclose to the
IRS the following information:
• Whether such organization is a party to the
prohibited tax shelter transaction (as defined in section 4965(e)); and
• The identity of any other party to the transaction that is known to the exempt organization.
Party to a prohibited tax shelter transaction. An exempt organization is a party to a
prohibited tax shelter transaction if the organization:
1. Facilitates a prohibited tax shelter transaction by reason of its tax-exempt, tax-indifferent, or tax-favored status; or
2. Is identified in published guidance by type,
class, or role as a party to a prohibited tax
shelter transaction.
See Prohibited Tax Shelter Transactions,
later, for further information.
Disclosure. A single disclosure is made by the
organization for each prohibited tax shelter
transaction. The disclosure is made on Form
8886-T, Disclosure by Tax-Exempt Entity Regarding Prohibited Tax Shelter Transaction.
Due date. Generally, for exempt organizations described in 1 above, the disclosure is due
on or before May 15 of the calendar year following the close of the calendar year that the exempt organization entered into the prohibited
tax shelter transaction. If any date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, substitute the
next business day. However, the disclosure for
subsequently listed transactions (as defined in
section 4965(e)(2)) is due on or before May 15
of the calendar year following the close of the
calendar year that the transaction was identified
by the Secretary as a listed transaction.
The disclosure for exempt organizations described in 2 above is due on or before the date
the first tax return (whether original or amended
return) is filed that reflects a reduction or elimination of the exempt organization's liability for
applicable federal employment, excise, or unrelated business income taxes that is derived directly or indirectly from tax consequences or tax
strategy described in the published guidance
that lists the transaction.
Penalty. Exempt organizations that fail to file
the required disclosure are subject to a nondisclosure penalty of $100 for each day the failure
continues with a maximum penalty for any one
disclosure of $50,000.
Also, if the IRS makes a written demand on
any exempt organization subject to this penalty,
giving the organization a reasonable date to
make the disclosure, and the organization fails
to make the disclosure by that date, the organization is subject to a penalty of $100 for each
day after the date specified by the IRS until disclosure is made (with a maximum penalty for
any one disclosure of $10,000).

Prohibited Tax Shelter
Transactions
Every exempt organization (as defined in section 4965(c)) that is a party to a prohibited tax
Publication 557 (1-2025)

Chapter 2

Miscellaneous Rules
Organizational Changes and
Exempt Status
If you’ve changed your form or place of organization, review Rev. Proc. 2018-15, 2018-9 I.R.B.
379, to determine whether you’re required to file
a new exemption application. If your organization becomes inactive for a period of time but
doesn't cease being an entity under the laws of
the state in which it was formed, you will have to
continue to file an annual information return during the period of inactivity, unless a filing exception applies. If your organization has been liquidated, dissolved, terminated, or substantially
contracted, you should file your annual return of
information by the 15th day of the 5th month after the change and follow the applicable instructions for the form.
If your organization amends its articles of organization or its internal regulations (bylaws),
then follow the instructions for Form 990, Form
990-EZ, or Form 990-PF for reporting these
changes. Regardless of whether your organization files an annual information return, you may
also report these changes to the EO Determinations office; however, such reporting doesn't relieve your organization from reporting the
changes on its annual information return. For information about informing the IRS of a termination or merger, see Publication 4779, Facts
about Terminating or Merging Your Exempt Organization.
An organization should report new significant program services or significant changes in
how it conducts program services, and significant changes to its organizational documents,
on its Form 990 rather than in a letter to EO Determinations. EO Determinations no longer issues letters confirming the tax-exempt status of
organizations that report new services or significant changes, or changes to organizational
documents.

Change in Accounting Period
The procedures that an organization must follow
to change its accounting period differ for an independent organization and for a central organization that seeks a group change for its subordinate organizations.
Independent organizations. If an organization isn't required to file an annual information
return, but files a Form 990-T, it can change its
annual accounting period by timely filing the
Form 990-T. If neither an information return nor
a Form 990-T is required to be filed, an organization must notify the IRS by letter that it has
changed its fiscal period.
If an organization changed its annual accounting period at any time within the previous
10 years and within that time it had a filing requirement, the organization must file a Form
1128, Application to Adopt, Change, or Retain a
Tax Year, with its timely filed annual information
return or Form 990-T, as appropriate, whether or
not the filing of the information return or Form

Filing Requirements and Required Disclosures

21

990-T would have otherwise been required for
that year.
Central organizations. A central organization
can obtain approval for a group change in an
annual accounting period for its subordinate organizations on a group basis only by filing Form
1128 with the IRS Service Center where it files
its annual information return. For more information, see Rev. Proc. 76-10, 1976-1 C.B. 548, as
modified by Rev. Proc. 79-3, 1979-1 C.B. 483,
or any later updates.
Due date. Form 1128 must be filed by the 15th
day of the 5th month following the close of the
short period.

Modify or Obtain an NTEE
Code.
Organizations that wish to modify or obtain a
National Taxonomy of Exempt Entities (NTEE)
Code should send a written request to the Correspondence Unit with the relevant facts, including the Code currently assigned, if any, and the
requested Code, as well as who selected the
currently assigned Code initially, if known. The
Correspondence Unit will refer to EO Determinations, if necessary, and will notify the organization if a form or user fee is required to make
the requested change. The written request must
be sent or faxed to:
Internal Revenue Service
Attn: Correspondence Unit
P.O. Box 2508, Room 6403
Cincinnati, OH 45201
Fax: (855) 204-6184
Express and Overnight Delivery:
Internal Revenue Service
Attn: Correspondence Unit
500 Main Street, Room 6403
Cincinnati, OH 45202

• Literary.
• Educational.
• Fostering national or international amateur

sports competition (but only if none of its
activities involve providing athletic facilities
or equipment; however, see Amateur Athletic Organizations, later in this chapter).
• The prevention of cruelty to children or animals.

To qualify, the organization must be organized as a corporation (including a limited liability
company), unincorporated association, or trust.
Sole proprietorships, partnerships, individuals,
or loosely associated groups of individuals
won't qualify.
Examples. Qualifying organizations include:
• Nonprofit old-age homes,
• Parent-teacher associations,
• Charitable hospitals or other charitable organizations,
• Alumni associations,
• Schools,
• Chapters of the Red Cross,
• Boys' or Girls' Clubs, and
• Churches.
Child care organizations. The term educational purposes includes providing for care of
children away from their homes if substantially
all the care provided is to enable individuals
(the parents) to be gainfully employed and the
services are available to the general public.
Instrumentalities. A state or municipal instrumentality may qualify under section 501(c)(3) if
it is organized as a separate entity from the governmental unit that created it and if it otherwise
meets the organizational and operational tests
of section 501(c)(3). Examples of a qualifying
instrumentality may include state schools, universities, or hospitals. However, if an organization is an integral part of the local government or
possesses governmental powers, it doesn't
qualify for exemption. A state or municipality itself doesn't qualify for exemption under section
501(c)(3).

Topics

This chapter discusses:

3.
Section
501(c)(3)
Organizations
Introduction

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Contributions to 501(c)(3) organizations,
Applications for recognition of exemption,
Articles of Organization,
Educational organizations and private
schools,
Organizations providing insurance,
Other section 501(c)(3) organizations,
Private foundations and public charities,
and
Lobbying expenditures.

Useful Items

You may want to see:

An organization may qualify for exemption from
federal income tax under section 501(c)(3) if it
is organized and operated exclusively for one or
more of the following purposes.
• Religious.
• Charitable.
• Scientific.
• Testing for public safety.

Forms (and Instructions)

22

Chapter 3

1023 Application for Recognition of
Exemption Under Section 501(c)(3)
of the Internal Revenue Code
1023

1023-EZ Streamlined Application for
Recognition of Exemption Under
1023-EZ

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code
Form 1023 and Form 1023-EZ must be filed
electronically on Pay.gov.
See chapter 6 for information about getting publications and forms.

Contributions to
501(c)(3) Organizations
Contributions to domestic organizations described in this chapter, except organizations testing
for public safety, are deductible as charitable
contributions on the donor's federal income tax
return.
Fundraising events. If the donor receives
something of value in return for the contribution,
a common occurrence with fundraising efforts,
part or all of the contribution may not be deductible. This may apply to fundraising activities
such as charity balls, bazaars, banquets, auctions, concerts, athletic events, and solicitations
for membership or contributions when merchandise or benefits are given in return for payment
of a specified minimum contribution.
If the donor receives or expects to receive
goods or services in return for a contribution to
your organization, the donor can't deduct any
part of the contribution unless the donor intends
to, and does, make a payment greater than the
fair market value of the goods or services. If a
deduction is allowed, the donor can deduct only
the part of the contribution, if any, that is more
than the fair market value of the goods or services received. You should determine in advance
the fair market value of any goods or services to
be given to contributors and tell them, when you
publicize the fundraising event or solicit their
contributions, how much is deductible and how
much is for the goods or services. See Disclosure of Quid Pro Quo Contributions in chapter 2.
Exemption application not filed. Generally,
donors can't deduct any charitable contribution
to an organization that is required to apply for
recognition of exemption but has not done so.
Separate fund—contributions that are deductible. An organization that is exempt from
federal income tax other than as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) can, if it desires, establish a fund, separate and apart from
its other funds, exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes,
fostering national or international amateur
sports competition, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals.
If the fund is organized and operated exclusively for these purposes, it may qualify for exemption as an organization described in section
501(c)(3), and contributions made to it will be
deductible, as provided by section 170. A fund
with these characteristics must be organized in
such a manner as to prohibit the use of its funds
upon dissolution, or otherwise, for the general
purposes of the organization creating it.
Personal benefit contracts. Generally, charitable deductions won't be allowed for a transfer
Publication 557 (1-2025)

to, or for the use of, a section 501(c)(3) or (c)(4)
organization if in connection with the transfer:
• The organization directly or indirectly pays,
or previously paid, a premium on a personal benefit contract for the transferor; or
• There is an understanding or expectation
that anyone will directly or indirectly pay a
premium on a personal benefit contract for
the transferor.
A personal benefit contract with respect to
the transferor is any life insurance, annuity, or
endowment contract, if any direct or indirect
beneficiary under the contract is the transferor,
any member of the transferor's family, or any
other person designated by the transferor.
Certain annuity contracts. If an organization incurs an obligation to pay a charitable gift
annuity, and the organization purchases an annuity contract to fund the obligation, individuals
receiving payments under the charitable gift annuity won't be treated as indirect beneficiaries if
the organization owns all of the incidents of
ownership under the contract, is entitled to all
payments under the contract, and the timing
and amount of the payments are substantially
the same as the timing and amount of payments
to each person under the obligation (as such
obligation is in effect at the time of the transfer).
Certain contracts held by a charitable
remainder trust. An individual won't be considered an indirect beneficiary under a life insurance, annuity, or endowment contract held by a
charitable remainder annuity trust or a charitable remainder unitrust solely by reason of being
entitled to the payment if the trust owns all of
the incidents of ownership under the contract,
and the trust is entitled to all payments under
the contract.
Excise tax. If the premiums are paid in connection with a transfer for which a deduction
isn't allowable under the deduction denial rule,
without regard to when the transfer to the charitable organization was made, an excise tax will
be applied that is equal to the amount of the
premiums paid by the organization on any life
insurance, annuity, or endowment contract. The
excise tax doesn't apply if all of the direct and
indirect beneficiaries under the contract are organizations.
Excise taxes. A charitable organization liable for excise taxes must file Form 4720, Return
of Certain Excise Taxes Under Chapters 41 and
42 of the Internal Revenue Code. Generally, the
due date for filing Form 4720 occurs on the 15th
day of the 5th month following the close of the
organization's tax year.
Indoor tanning services. If your organization provides an indoor tanning bed service, the
ACA imposed a 10% excise tax on services provided after June 30, 2010. For more information, go to IRS.gov and select Affordable Care
Act Tax Provisions.

Application for
Recognition of
Exemption
This discussion describes certain information to
be provided upon application for recognition of
exemption by all organizations created for any
of the purposes described earlier in this chapter. See the organization headings that follow
for specific information your organization may
need to provide.
Form 1023 or Form 1023-EZ. Your organization must file its application for recognition of exemption on Form 1023 or Form 1023-EZ. See
chapter 1 and the instructions accompanying
Form 1023 or Form 1023-EZ for the procedures
to follow in applying. Some organizations aren't
required to file Form 1023 or Form 1023-EZ.
See Organizations Not Required to File Form
1023 or 1023-EZ, later.
If you are a small organization, you may be
eligible to apply for recognition of exemption by
filing Form 1023-EZ instead of Form 1023. Specific eligibility requirements apply. You can find
more information about eligibility to use Form
1023-EZ at Instructions for Form 1023-EZ.
Additional information to help you com-

TIP plete your application can be found on-

line. Go to Exemption Requirement –
Section 501(c)(3) Organizations and select the
link at the bottom of the web page for step by
step help with the application process. See
Exemption Requirements - Section 501(c)(3)
Organizations.
Form 1023 and accompanying statements
must show that all of the following are true.
1. The organization is organized exclusively
for, and will be operated exclusively for,
one or more of the purposes (religious,
charitable, etc.) specified in the introduction to this chapter.
2. No part of the organization's net earnings
will inure to the benefit of private shareholders or individuals. You must establish
that your organization won't be organized
or operated for the benefit of private interests, such as the creator or the creator's
family, shareholders of the organization,
other designated individuals, or persons
controlled directly or indirectly by such private interests.
3. The organization won't, as a substantial
part of its activities, attempt to influence
legislation (unless it elects to come under
the provisions allowing certain lobbying
expenditures) or participate to any extent
in a political campaign for or against any
candidate for public office. See Political
activity, next, and Lobbying Expenditures,
near the end of this chapter.
Political activity. If any of the activities
(whether or not substantial) of your organization
consist of participating in, or intervening in, any
political campaign on behalf of (or in opposition
to) any candidate for public office, your organization won't qualify for tax-exempt status under

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

section 501(c)(3). Such participation or intervention includes the publishing or distributing of
statements. See the Form 1023 instructions.
Whether your organization is participating or
intervening, directly or indirectly, in any political
campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) any
candidate for public office depends upon all of
the facts and circumstances of each case. Certain voter education activities or public forums
conducted in a nonpartisan manner may not be
prohibited political activity under section 501(c)
(3), while other so-called voter education activities may be prohibited.
Effective date of exemption. Most organizations described in this chapter that were organized after October 9, 1969, won't be treated as
tax exempt unless they apply for recognition of
exemption by filing Form 1023 or Form
1023-EZ. These organizations won't be treated
as tax exempt for any period before they file
Form 1023 or Form 1023-EZ, unless they file
the form within 27 months from the end of the
month in which they were organized. If the organization files the application within this
27-month period, the organization's exemption
will generally be recognized retroactively to the
date it was organized. Otherwise, exemption will
be recognized only from the date of receipt. The
date of receipt is the date of the U.S. postmark
on the cover in which an exemption application
is mailed or, if no postmark appears on the
cover, the date the application is stamped as received by the IRS or, for an electronic submission, the date submitted to the IRS.
Private delivery service. You can use certain private delivery services (PDS) designated
by the IRS to meet the “timely mailing as timely
filing” rule for tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/PDS for
the current list of designated services.
The PDS can tell you how to get written proof of
the mailing date.
For the IRS mailing address to use if you're using a PDS, go to IRS.gov/PDStreetAddresses.
Private delivery services can't deliver
items to P.O. boxes. You must use the
CAUTION U.S. Postal Service to mail any item to
an IRS P.O. box address.

!

Amendments to organizing documents
required. If an organization is required to alter
its activities or to make substantive amendments to its organizing document, the determination letter recognizing its exempt status will
be effective as of the date the changes are
made. If only a nonsubstantive amendment is
made, exempt status will be effective as of the
date it was organized, if the application was
filed within the 27-month period, or the date the
application was filed.
Discretionary extension of time for filing.
An organization that fails to file a Form 1023
within the 27-month period may be granted an
extension to file if it submits evidence (including
affidavits) to establish that:
1. It acted reasonably and in good faith, and

23

2. Granting a discretionary extension won't
prejudice the interests of the government.
The discretionary extension of the time for filing
Form 1023 does not apply if granting relief
would result in the organization’s exempt status
being automatically revoked for failure to file a
required annual information return or notice for
3 consecutive years, effective before the application date.
Additionally, organizations that are not required to apply for recognition of exemption in
order to be exempt are not eligible to request
the discretionary extension. However, these organizations may be exempt prior to the effective
date the IRS recognizes exempt status because
they may be tax-exempt under Section 501(c)
(3) without filing an application. See Organizations Not Required to File Form 1023 or Form
1023-EZ.
How to show reasonable action and
good faith. The following factors are considered in determining whether an organization acted reasonably and showed good faith.
1. The organization failed to file an application because of intervening events beyond
its control.
2. The organization exercised reasonable diligence (taking into account the complexity
of the filing or issue and the organization's
experience in these matters) but wasn't
aware of the application filing requirement.
3. The organization reasonably relied upon
the written advice of the IRS.
4. The organization reasonably relied upon
the advice of a qualified tax professional
who failed to file or advise the organization
to file Form 1023 or Form 1023-EZ. An organization can't rely on the advice of a tax
professional if it knows or should know that
they aren’t competent to render advice on
filing exemption applications or isn't aware
of all the relevant facts.
5. The organization filed required Form
990-series returns or notices consistent
with its requested status.
Not acting reasonably and in good faith.
An organization has not acted reasonably and
in good faith under the following circumstances.
1. It seeks to change a return position for
which an accuracy-related penalty has
been or could be imposed at the time the
relief is requested.
2. It was informed of the requirement to file
and related tax consequences, but chose
not to file.
3. It uses hindsight in requesting relief. The
IRS won't ordinarily grant an extension if
specific facts have changed since the due
date that makes filing an application advantageous to an organization.
4. Granting the request for relief would result
in the organization’s tax-exempt status being automatically revoked effective before
the application date.
Prejudicing the interest of the government. Prejudice to the interest of the
24

government results if granting an extension of
time to file to an organization results in a lower
total tax liability for the years to which the filing
applies than would have been the case if the organization had filed on time. Before granting an
extension, the IRS can require the organization
requesting it to submit a statement from an independent auditor certifying that no prejudice
will result if the extension is granted.
The interests of the government are ordinarily prejudiced if the tax year in which the application should have been filed (or any tax year
that would have been affected had the filing
been timely) are closed by the statute of limitations before relief is granted. Therefore, the request for relief will not be granted if the period of
limitations on assessment under section
6501(a) for any taxable year for which the organization claims tax-exempt status has expired
prior to the date of application. The IRS can
condition a grant of relief on the organization
providing the IRS with a statement from an independent auditor certifying that the interests of
the Government aren't prejudiced.
Procedure for requesting extension. To
request a discretionary extension, an organization must submit the relevant portions of Form
1023, Schedule E, including describing in detail
the events that led to the failure to apply and to
the discovery of that failure. If the organization
relied on a tax professional's advice, the schedule should describe the engagement and responsibilities of the professional and the extent
to which the organization relied on the tax professional. An organization applying for section
501(c)(3) status can no longer request the extension by filing Form 1023-EZ and then submitting correspondence to the IRS.
A request for this relief in connection with an
application for exemption doesn't require payment of an additional user fee. Also, a request
for relief under the automatic 12-month extension doesn't require payment of a user fee.
More information. For more information
about these procedures, see Regulations sections 301.9100-1, 301.9100-2, and 301.9100-3,
along with the current year issued revenue procedures.
Notification from the IRS. Organizations filing
Form 1023 or Form 1023-EZ and satisfying all
requirements of section 501(c)(3) will be notified of their exempt status in writing.

Organizations Not Required
to File Form 1023 or Form
1023-EZ
Some organizations aren't required to file Form
1023 or 1023-EZ. These include:
• Churches, interchurch organizations of local units of a church, conventions or associations of churches, or integrated auxiliaries of a church, such as a men's or
women's organization, religious school,
mission society, or youth group.
• Any organization (other than a private foundation) normally having annual gross receipts of not more than $5,000 (see Gross
receipts test, later).

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

These organizations are exempt automatically if they meet the requirements of section
501(c)(3). However, such organizations will not
appear on the Tax-Exempt Organization Search
list of organizations eligible to receive tax-deductible contributions. These organizations also
cannot obtain a written affirmation of their exempt status. To be included in the IRS database
of exempt organizations and be eligible to receive a written determination or affirmation of
exempt status, these organization must file
Form 1023 or 1023-EZ.
Filing Form 1023 or 1023-EZ to establish
exemption. If the organization wants to establish its exemption with the IRS and receive a determination letter recognizing its exempt status,
it should file Form 1023 or 1023-EZ (if eligible).
By establishing its exemption, potential contributors are assured by the IRS that contributions
will be deductible. A subordinate organization
(other than a private foundation) covered by a
group exemption letter doesn't have to submit a
Form 1023 or Form 1023-EZ for itself.
Private foundations. See Private Foundations and Public Charities, later in this chapter,
for more information about the additional notice
required from an organization in order for it not
to be presumed to be a private foundation and
for the additional information required from a
private foundation claiming to be an operating
foundation.
Gross receipts test. For purposes of the
gross receipts test, an organization normally
doesn't have more than $5,000 annually in
gross receipts if:
1. During its first tax year the organization received gross receipts of $7,500 or less,
2. During its first 2 years the organization had
a total of $12,000 or less in gross receipts,
and
3. In the case of an organization that has
been in existence for at least 3 years, the
total gross receipts received by the organization during the immediately preceding 2
years, plus the current year, are $15,000
or less.
An organization with gross receipts more
than the amounts in the gross receipts test, unless otherwise exempt from filing Form 1023 or
Form 1023-EZ, must apply for recognition of exemption within 90 days after the end of the period in which the amounts are exceeded. For example, an organization's gross receipts for its
first tax year were less than $7,500, but at the
end of its second tax year its gross receipts for
the 2-year period were more than $12,000. The
organization must apply for recognition of exemption within 90 days after the end of its second tax year.
If the organization had existed for at least 3
tax years and had met the gross receipts test for
all prior tax years but fails to meet the requirement for the current tax year, its tax-exempt status for the prior years won't be lost even if it
does not apply for recognition of exemption
within 90 days after the close of the current tax
year. However, the organization won't be treated
as a section 501(c)(3) organization for the period beginning with the current tax year and
Publication 557 (1-2025)

ending with the filing of its application for recognition of exemption .
Example. An organization is organized and
operated exclusively for charitable purposes
and isn't a private foundation. It was incorporated on January 1, 2017, and files returns on a
calendar-year basis. It didn't apply for recognition of exemption. The organization's gross receipts during the years 2017 through 2020 were
as follows:
2017 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2018 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2019 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2020 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$3,600
2,900
400
12,600

The organization's total gross receipts for
2017, 2018, and 2019 were $6,900. Therefore,
it didn't have to apply for recognition of exemption and is exempt for those years. However, for
2018, 2019, and 2020 the total gross receipts
were $15,900. Therefore, the organization must
apply for recognition of exemption within 90
days after the end of its 2020 tax year. If it
doesn't apply within this time period, it won't be
exempt under section 501(c)(3) for the period
beginning with tax year 2020 ending when the
application for recognition of exemption is received by the IRS. The organization, however,
won't lose its exempt status for the tax years
ending before January 1, 2020.
The IRS will consider applying the Commissioner's discretionary authority to extend the
time for filing an application for recognition of
exemption. See the procedures for this extension discussed earlier.

Articles of Organization
Your organization must be a legal entity (corporation, trust, or association) separate from its organizers and must have written articles of organization. Depending upon the type of entity,
its articles of organization may be a corporate
charter (filed articles of incorporation), trust instrument, articles of association, or any other
written instrument by which the organization
was created. If applying for recognition of exemption using Form 1023, a conformed copy of
the articles of organization must be uploaded
with the application for recognition of exemption. See Form 1023, Part II. An organization
applying for exemption using Form 1023-EZ
does not submit a copy of the articles of organization with its application; however, the organization could be asked to provide a copy at any
time as part of a compliance check or examination.

Organizational Test
The articles of organization must limit the organization's purposes to one or more of those described at the beginning of this chapter and
mustn't expressly empower it to engage, other
than as an insubstantial part of its activities, in
activities that don't further one or more of those
purposes. These conditions for exemption are
referred to as the organizational test.

described in this chapter. Therefore, the organizational test may be met if the purposes stated
in the articles of organization are limited in
some way by reference to section 501(c)(3).
The requirement that your organization's
purposes and powers must be limited by the articles of organization isn't satisfied if the limit is
contained only in the bylaws or other rules or
regulations. Moreover, the organizational test
isn't satisfied by statements of your organization's officers that you intend to operate only for
exempt purposes. Also, the test isn't satisfied by
the fact that your actual operations are for exempt purposes.
In interpreting an organization's articles, the
law of the state where the organization was created is controlling. If an organization contends
that the terms of its articles have a different
meaning under state law than their generally accepted meaning, such meaning must be established by a clear and convincing reference to
relevant court decisions, opinions of the state
attorney general, or other appropriate state authorities.
The following are examples illustrating the
organizational test.
Example 1. Articles of organization state
that an organization is formed exclusively for literary and scientific purposes within the meaning of section 501(c)(3). These articles appropriately limit the organization's purposes. The
organization meets the organizational test.
Example 2. An organization, by the terms
of its articles, is formed to engage in research
without any further description or limitation. The
organization won't be properly limited as to its
purposes since all research isn't scientific. The
organization doesn't meet the organizational
test.
Example 3. An organization's articles state
that its purpose is to receive contributions and
pay them over to organizations that are described in section 501(c)(3) and exempt from taxation under section 501(a). The organization
meets the organizational test.
Example 4. If a stated purpose in the articles is the conduct of a school of adult education and its manner of operation is described in
detail, such a purpose will be satisfactorily limited.
Example 5. If the articles state the organization is formed for charitable purposes, without
any further description, such language ordinarily will be sufficient since the term charitable
has a generally accepted legal meaning. On the
other hand, if the purposes are stated to be
charitable, philanthropic, and benevolent, the
organizational requirement won't be met since
the terms philanthropic and benevolent have no
generally accepted legal meaning and, therefore, the stated purposes may, under the laws of
the state, permit activities that are broader than
those intended by the exemption law.

Section 501(c)(3) is the provision of law that
grants exemption to the organizations

Example 6. If the articles state an organization is formed to promote American ideals, or to
foster the best interests of the people, or to further the common welfare and well-being of the

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

community, without any limitation or provision
restricting such purposes to accomplishment
only in a charitable manner, the purposes won't
be sufficiently limited. Such purposes are vague
and may be accomplished other than in an exempt manner.
Example 7. A stated purpose to operate a
hospital doesn't meet the organizational test
since it isn't necessarily charitable. A hospital
may or may not be exempt depending on the
manner in which it is operated.
Example 8. An organization that is expressly empowered by its articles to carry on
social activities won't be sufficiently limited as to
its power, even if its articles state that it is organized and will be operated exclusively for
charitable purposes.

Dedication and
Distribution of Assets
Assets of an organization must be permanently
dedicated to an exempt purpose. This means
that should an organization dissolve, its assets
must be distributed for an exempt purpose described in this chapter, or to the Federal Government or to a state or local government for a
public purpose. If the assets could be distributed to members or private individuals or for
any other purpose, the organizational test isn't
met.
Dedication. To establish that your organization's assets will be permanently dedicated to
an exempt purpose, the articles of organization
should contain a provision ensuring their distribution for an exempt purpose in the event of dissolution. Although reliance can be placed upon
state law to establish permanent dedication of
assets for exempt purposes, review of an application for exemption may be facilitated if the articles of organization include a provision ensuring permanent dedication of assets for exempt
purposes.
Distribution. Rev. Proc. 82-2, 1982-1 C.B.
367, identifies the states and circumstances in
which the IRS won't require an express provision for the distribution of assets upon dissolution in the articles of organization. The procedure also provides a sample of an acceptable
dissolution provision for organizations required
to have one.
If a named beneficiary is to be the distributee, it must be one that would qualify and would
be exempt within the meaning of section 501(c)
(3) at the time the dissolution takes place. Since
the named beneficiary at the time of dissolution
may not be qualified, may not be in existence,
or may be unwilling or unable to accept the assets of the dissolving organization, a provision
should be made for distribution of the assets for
one or more of the purposes specified in this
chapter in the event of any such contingency.
Sample articles of organization. See sample
articles of organization in the Appendix in the
back of this publication.

25

Educational
Organizations
and Private Schools
If your organization wants to obtain recognition
of exemption as an educational organization,
you must submit complete information as to
how your organization carries on or plans to
carry on its educational activities, such as by
conducting a school, by panels, discussions,
lectures, forums, radio and television programs,
or through various cultural media such as museums, symphony orchestras, or art exhibits. In
each instance, you must explain by whom and
where these activities are or will be conducted
and the amount of admission fees, if any. You
must submit a copy of the pertinent contracts,
agreements, publications, programs, etc.
If you are organized to conduct a school,
you must submit full information regarding your
tuition charges, number of faculty members,
number of full-time and part-time students enrolled, courses of study and degrees conferred,
together with a copy of your school catalog. See
Form 1023, Schedule B and Private Schools,
discussed later.

Educational Organizations
The term educational relates to:
1. The instruction or training of individuals for
the purpose of improving or developing
their capabilities, or
2. The instruction of the public on subjects
useful to individuals and beneficial to the
community.
Advocacy of a position. Advocacy of a particular position or viewpoint may be educational if
there is a sufficiently full and fair exposition of
pertinent facts to permit an individual or the
public to form an independent opinion or conclusion. The mere presentation of unsupported
opinion isn't educational.
Method not educational. The method
used by an organization to develop and present
its views is a factor in determining if an organization qualifies as educational within the meaning of section 501(c)(3). The following factors
may indicate that the method isn't educational.
1. The presentation of viewpoints unsupported by facts is a significant part of the organization's communications.
2. The facts that purport to support the viewpoint are distorted.
3. The organization's presentations make
substantial use of inflammatory and disparaging terms and express conclusions
more on the basis of emotion than of objective evaluations.
4. The approach used isn't aimed at developing an understanding on the part of the audience because it doesn't consider their
background or training.
Exceptional circumstances, however, may
exist where an organization's advocacy may be
26

educational even if one or more of the factors
listed above are present.
Qualifying organizations. The following types
of organizations may qualify as educational:
1. An organization, such as a primary or secondary school, a college, or a professional
or trade school, that has a regularly scheduled curriculum, a regular faculty, and a
regularly enrolled student body in attendance at a place where the educational activities are regularly carried on;

so far as may be feasible, for the next academic year.)
2. The amount of scholarship and loan funds,
if any, awarded to students enrolled and
the racial composition of students who
have received the awards.
3. A list of the school's incorporators, founders, board members, and donors of land or
buildings, whether individuals or organizations.

3. An organization that presents a course of
instruction by correspondence or through
the use of television or radio;

4. A statement indicating whether any of the
persons described in item (3) above have
an objective of maintaining segregated
public or private school education at the
time the application is filed and, if so,
whether any of the individuals described in
item (3) are officers or active members of
those organizations at the time the application is filed.

4. A museum, zoo, planetarium, symphony
orchestra, or other similar organization;

5. The public school district and county in
which the school is located.

2. An organization whose activities consist of
conducting public discussion groups, forums, panels, lectures, or other similar programs;

5. A nonprofit children's day-care center; and
6. A credit counseling organization.
College book stores, cafeterias, restaurants, etc. These and other on-campus organizations should submit information to show that
they are controlled by and operated for the convenience of the faculty and student body or by
whom they are controlled and whom they serve.
Alumni association. An alumni association should establish that it is organized to promote the welfare of the university with which it is
affiliated, is subject to the control of the university as to its policies and destination of funds,
and is operated as an integral part of the university or is otherwise organized to promote the
welfare of the college or university. If your association doesn't have these characteristics, it
may still be exempt as a social club if it meets
the requirements described in chapter 4, under
501(c)(7) - Social and Recreation Clubs.
Athletic organization. This type of organization must submit evidence that it is engaged
in activities such as directing and controlling interscholastic athletic competitions, conducting
tournaments, and prescribing eligibility rules for
contestants. If it isn't so engaged, your organization may be exempt as a social club described in chapter 4. Raising funds to be used for
travel and other activities to interview and persuade prospective students with outstanding
athletic ability to attend a particular university
doesn't show an exempt purpose. If your organization isn't exempt as an educational organization, see Amateur Athletic Organizations, later
in this chapter.

Private Schools
Every private school filing an application for recognition of tax-exempt status must supply the
IRS (on Schedule B, Form 1023) with the following information.
1. The racial composition of the student
body, and of the faculty and administrative
staff, as of the current academic year.
(This information must also be projected,

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

How to determine racial composition. The
racial composition of the student body, faculty,
and administrative staff can be an estimate
based on the best information readily available
to the school, without requiring student applicants, students, faculty, or administrative staff to
submit to the school information that the school
otherwise doesn't require. Nevertheless, a
statement of the method by which the racial
composition was determined must be supplied.
The identity of individual students or members
of the faculty and administrative staff shouldn't
be included with this information.
A school that is a state or municipal instrumentality (see Instrumentalities, near the beginning of this chapter), whether or not it qualifies
for exemption under section 501(c)(3), isn't considered to be a private school for purposes of
the following discussion.

Racially Nondiscriminatory Policy
To qualify as an organization exempt from federal income tax, a private school must include a
statement in its charter, bylaws, or other governing instrument, or in a resolution of its governing
body, that it has a racially nondiscriminatory policy as to students and that it doesn't discriminate against applicants and students on the basis of race, color, or national or ethnic origin.
Also, the school must circulate information that
clearly states the school's admission policies. A
racially nondiscriminatory policy toward students means that the school admits the students of any race to all the rights, privileges,
programs, and activities generally accorded or
made available to students at that school and
that the school doesn't discriminate on the basis of race in administering its educational policies, admission policies, scholarship and loan
programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs.
The IRS considers discrimination on the basis of race to include discrimination on the basis
of color or national or ethnic origin.
The existence of a racially discriminatory
policy with respect to the employment of faculty
and administrative staff is indicative of a racially
Publication 557 (1-2025)

discriminatory policy as to students. Conversely, the absence of racial discrimination in
the employment of faculty and administrative
staff is indicative of a racially nondiscriminatory
policy as to students.
A policy of a school that favors racial minority groups with respect to admissions, facilities
and programs, and financial assistance isn't discrimination on the basis of race when the purpose and effect of this policy is to promote establishing and maintaining the school's
nondiscriminatory policy.
A school that selects students on the basis
of membership in a religious denomination or
unit isn't discriminating if membership in the denomination or unit is open to all on a racially
nondiscriminatory basis.
Policy statement. The school must include a
statement of its racially nondiscriminatory policy
in all its brochures and catalogs dealing with
student admissions, programs, and scholarships. Also, the school must include a reference
to its racially nondiscriminatory policy in other
written advertising that it uses to inform prospective students of its programs.
Publicity requirement. The school must make
its racially nondiscriminatory policy known to all
segments of the general community served by
the school. Selective communication of a racially nondiscriminatory policy that a school provides solely to leaders of racial groups won't be
considered an effective means of communication to make the policy known to all segments of
the community. To satisfy this requirement, the
school must use one of the following three
methods.
Method one. The school can publish a notice of its racially nondiscriminatory policy in a
newspaper of general circulation that serves all
racial segments of the community. Such publication must be repeated at least once annually
during the period of the school's solicitation for
students or, in the absence of a solicitation program, during the school's registration period.
When more than one community is served by a
school, the school can publish the notice in
those newspapers that are reasonably likely to
be read by all racial segments in the communities that the school serves.

NOTICE OF
NONDISCRIMINATORY POLICY
AS TO STUDENTS
The M School admits students of any race,
color, national and ethnic origin to all the
rights, privileges, programs, and activities
generally accorded or made available to
students at the school. It doesn't
discriminate on the basis of race, color,
national and ethnic origin in administration
of its educational policies, admissions
policies, scholarship and loan programs,
and athletic and other school-administered
programs.

Method two. The school can use the
broadcast media to publicize its racially nondiscriminatory policy if this use makes the policy
known to all segments of the general community the school serves. If the school uses this
method, it must provide documentation showing
that the means by which this policy was communicated to all segments of the general community was reasonably expected to be effective.
In this case, appropriate documentation would
include copies of the tapes or scripts used and
records showing that there was an adequate
number of announcements. The documentation
also would include proof that these announcements were made during hours when they were
likely to be communicated to all segments of the
general community, that they were long enough
to convey the message clearly, and that they
were broadcast on radio or television stations
likely to be listened to by substantial numbers of
members of all racial segments of the general
community. Announcements must be made during the period of the school's solicitation for students or, in the absence of a solicitation program, during the school's registration period.

2. It must occupy at least 3 column inches.

Method
three. Rev. Proc. 2019-22,
2019-22 I.R.B. 1260 modifies Rev. Proc. 75-50,
1975-2 C.B. 587, to reflect technological advances since its publication and provides a third
method for a private school to satisfy the requirement contained in section 4.03 of the revenue procedure by using its Internet website to
publicize the school’s racially nondiscriminatory
policy as to students. To satisfy the requirement
using this method, the school may display a notice (consisting of the same language as in
Method 1) of its racially nondiscriminatory policy on its primary publicly accessible Internet
homepage at all times during its taxable year
(excluding temporary outages due to website
maintenance or technical problems) in a manner reasonably expected to be noticed by visitors to the homepage. See Rev. Proc. 2019-22
for more information about satisfying the publicity requirement using this method.

3. It must have its title printed in at least 12
point bold face type.

Exceptions. The publicity requirements
won't apply in the following situations.

4. It must have the remaining text printed in
at least 8 point type.

First, if for the preceding 3 years the enrollment of a parochial or other church-related school consists of students at least
75% of whom are members of the sponsoring religious denomination or unit, the
school can make known its racially nondiscriminatory policy in whatever newspapers
or circulars the religious denomination or
unit uses in the communities from which
the students are drawn. These newspapers

If this method is used, the notice must meet
the following printing requirements.
1. It must appear in a section of the newspaper likely to be read by prospective students and their families.

The following is an acceptable example of
the notice:

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

and circulars can be distributed by a particular religious denomination or unit or by an
association that represents a number of religious organizations of the same denomination. If, however, the school advertises in
newspapers of general circulation in the
community or communities from which its
students are drawn and the second exception (discussed next) doesn't apply to the
school, then it must comply with either of
the publicity requirements explained earlier.
Second, if a school customarily draws a
substantial percentage of its students nationwide, worldwide, from a large geographic section or sections of the United
States, or from local communities, and if
the school follows a racially nondiscriminatory policy as to its students, the school
may satisfy the publicity requirement by
complying with the instructions explained
earlier under Policy statement.
The school can demonstrate that it follows a
racially nondiscriminatory policy either by showing that it currently enrolls students of racial minority groups in meaningful numbers or, except
for local community schools, when minority students aren't enrolled in meaningful numbers,
that its promotional activities and recruiting efforts in each geographic area were reasonably
designed to inform students of all racial segments in the general communities within the
area of the availability of the school. The question as to whether a school demonstrates such
a policy satisfactorily will be determined on the
basis of the facts and circumstances of each
case.
The IRS recognizes that the failure by a
school drawing its students from local communities to enroll racial minority group students may
not necessarily indicate the absence of a racially nondiscriminatory policy when there are
relatively few or no such students in these communities. Actual enrollment is, however, a
meaningful indication of a racially nondiscriminatory policy in a community in which a public
school or schools became subject to a desegregation order of a federal court or are otherwise
expressly obligated to implement a desegregation plan under the terms of any written contract
or other commitment to which any federal
agency was a party.
The IRS encourages schools to satisfy the
publicity requirement by using either of the
methods described earlier, even though a
school considers itself to be within one of the
Exceptions. The IRS believes that these publicity requirements are the most effective methods to make known a school's racially nondiscriminatory policy. In this regard, it is each
school's responsibility to determine whether either of the exceptions applies. Such responsibility will prepare the school, if it is audited by the
IRS, to demonstrate that the failure to publish its
racially nondiscriminatory policy in accordance
with either one of the publicity requirements
was justified by one of the exceptions. Also, a
school must be prepared to demonstrate that it
has publicly disavowed or repudiated any statements purported to have been made on its behalf (after November 6, 1975) that are contrary
to its publicity of a racially nondiscriminatory
policy as to students, to the extent that the
27

school or its principal official was aware of these
statements.

information, without advance approval of the
IRS.

Facilities and programs. A school must be
able to show that all of its programs and facilities are operated in a racially nondiscriminatory
manner.

The IRS doesn't require that a school release
any personally identifiable records or personal
information except in accordance with the requirements of the Family Educational Rights
and Privacy Act of 1974. Similarly, the IRS
doesn't require a school to keep records prohibited under state or federal law.

Scholarship and loan programs. As a general rule, all scholarship or other comparable
benefits obtainable at the school must be offered on a racially nondiscriminatory basis. This
must be known throughout the general community being served by the school and should
be referred to in its publicity. Financial assistance programs, as well as scholarships and
loans made under financial assistance programs, that favor members of one or more racial
minority groups and that don't significantly detract from or are designed to promote a school's
racially nondiscriminatory policy won't adversely affect the school's exempt status.
Certification. An individual authorized to take
official action on behalf of a school that claims
to be racially nondiscriminatory as to students
must certify annually, under penalties of perjury,
on Schedule E (Form 990) or Form 5578, Annual Certification of Racial Nondiscrimination
for a Private School Exempt From Federal Income Tax, whichever applies, that to the best of
their knowledge and belief the school has satisfied all requirements that apply, as previously
explained.
Failure to comply with the guidelines ordinarily will result in the proposed revocation of the
exempt status of a school.
Recordkeeping requirements. With
certain exceptions, given later, each
RECORDS exempt private school must maintain
the following records for a minimum period of 3
years, beginning with the year after the year of
compilation or acquisition.
1. Records indicating the racial composition
of the student body, faculty, and administrative staff for each academic year.

Exceptions. The school doesn't have to independently maintain these records for IRS use
if both of the following are true.
1. Substantially the same information has
been included in a report or reports filed
with an agency or agencies of federal,
state, or local governments, and this information is current within 1 year.
2. The school maintains copies of these reports from which this information is readily
obtainable.
If these reports don't include all of the information required, as discussed earlier, records providing such remaining information must be
maintained by the school for IRS use.
Failure to maintain records. Failure to
maintain or to produce the required records and
information, upon proper request, will create a
presumption that the organization has failed to
comply with these guidelines.
See Rev. Proc. 2019–22 for more information on private school's racially nondiscriminatory policy requirements.

Organizations Providing
Insurance
An organization described in sections 501(c)(3)
or 501(c)(4) may be exempt from tax only if no
substantial part of its activities consists of providing commercial-type insurance.

2. Records sufficient to document that scholarship and other financial assistance is
awarded on a racially nondiscriminatory
basis.

However, this rule doesn't apply to
state-sponsored organizations described in
sections 501(c)(26) or 501(c)(27), which are
discussed in chapter 4, or to charitable risk
pools, discussed next.

3. Copies of all materials used by or on behalf of the school to solicit contributions.

Charitable Risk Pools

4. Copies of all brochures, catalogs, and advertising dealing with student admissions,
programs, and scholarships. (Schools advertising nationally or in a large geographic segment or segments of the United States need only maintain a record
sufficient to indicate when and in what
publications their advertisements were
placed.)

A charitable risk pool is treated as organized
and operated exclusively for charitable purposes if it satisfies all of the following requirements:
1. Is organized and operated only to pool insurable risks of its members (not including
risks related to medical malpractice) and
to provide information to its members
about loss control and risk management,

5. Has obtained at least $1,000,000 in
startup capital from nonmember charitable
organizations,
6. Is controlled by a board of directors elected by its members, and
7. Is organized under documents requiring
that:
a. Each member be a section 501(c)(3)
organization exempt from tax under
section 501(a),
b. Each member that receives a final determination that it no longer qualifies
under section 501(c)(3) notify the pool
immediately, and
c. Each insurance policy issued by the
pool provide that it won't cover events
occurring after a final determination
described in (b).

Other Section 501(c)(3)
Organizations
In addition to the information required for all organizations, as described earlier, you should include any other information described in this
section.

Charitable Organizations
If your organization is applying for recognition of
exemption as a charitable organization, it must
show that it is organized and operated for purposes that are beneficial to the public interest.
Some examples of this type of organization are
those organized for:
• Relief of the poor, the distressed, or the underprivileged;
• Advancement of religion;
• Advancement of education or science;
• Erection or maintenance of public buildings, monuments, or works;
• Lessening the burdens of government;
• Lessening of neighborhood tensions;
• Elimination of prejudice and discrimination;
• Defense of human and civil rights secured
by law; and
• Combating community deterioration and
juvenile delinquency.
The rest of this section contains a description of
the information to be provided by certain specific organizations. This information is in addition to the required inclusions described in
chapter 1, and other statements requested on
Form 1023 or 1023-EZ. Each of the following
organizations must submit the information described.

The racial composition of the student body, faculty, and administrative staff can be determined
in the same manner as that described at the beginning of this section. However, a school can't
discontinue maintaining a system of records
that reflect the racial composition of its students, faculty, and administrative staff used on
November 6, 1975, unless it substitutes a different system that compiles substantially the same

3. Is organized under state law authorizing
this type of risk pooling,

Charitable organization supporting education. Submit information showing how your organization supports education — for example,
contributes to an existing educational institution,
endows a professorial chair, contributes toward
paying teachers' salaries, or contributes to an
educational institution to enable it to carry on research.

4. Is exempt from state income tax (or will be
after qualifying as a section 501(c)(3) organization),

Scholarships. If the organization awards or
plans to award scholarships, complete Schedule H of Form 1023. Also, submit the following:

28

Chapter 3

2. Consists only of members that are section
501(c)(3) organizations exempt from tax
under section 501(a),

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

Publication 557 (1-2025)

1. Criteria used for selecting recipients, including the rules of eligibility;

1. An explanation of the circumstances under
which such loans are, or will be, made.

2. How and by whom the recipients are or will
be selected;

2. Criteria for selection, including the rules of
eligibility.

3. If awards are or will be made directly to individuals, whether information is required
assuring that the student remains in
school;

3. How and by whom the recipients are or will
be selected.

4. If awards are or will be made to recipients
of a particular class, for example, children
of employees of a particular employer—
a. Whether any preference is or will be
accorded an applicant by reason of
the parent's position, length of employment, or salary;
b. Whether as a condition of the award
the recipient must upon graduation
accept employment with the company; and
c. Whether the award will be continued
even if the parent's employment ends.
5. A copy of the scholarship application form
and any brochures or literature describing
the scholarship program.
Hospital. If you are organized to operate a
charitable hospital, complete and attach Section I of Schedule C, Form 1023.
If your hospital was transferred to you from
proprietary ownership, complete and attach
Schedule G of Form 1023. You must attach a
list showing:
1. The names of the active and courtesy staff
members of the proprietary hospital, as
well as the names of your medical staff
members after the transfer to nonprofit
ownership; and
2. The names of any doctors who continued
to lease office space in the hospital after
its transfer to nonprofit ownership and the
amount of rent paid. Submit also an appraisal showing the fair rental value of the
rented space.
Clinic. Schedule C, Form 1023, is also designed to encompass outpatient clinics. If you
are organized to operate a clinic, provide information regarding:

4. Manner of repayment of the loan.
5. Security required, if any.
6. Interest charged, if any, and when payable.
7. Copies in duplicate of the loan application
and any brochures or literature describing
the loan program.
Public-interest law firms. If your organization
was formed to litigate in the public interest (as
opposed to providing legal services to the
poor), such as in the area of protection of the
environment, you should submit the following information.
1. How the litigation can reasonably be said
to be representative of a broad public interest rather than a private one.
2. Whether the organization will accept fees
for its services.
3. A description of the cases litigated or to be
litigated and how they benefit the public
generally.
4. Whether the policies and program of the
organization are the responsibility of a
board or committee representative of the
public interest, which is neither controlled
by employees or persons who litigate on
behalf of the organization nor by any organization that isn't itself an organization
described in this chapter.
5. Whether the organization is operated,
through sharing of office space or otherwise, in a way to create identification or
confusion with a particular private law firm.
6. Whether there is an arrangement to provide, directly or indirectly, a deduction for
the cost of litigation that is for the private
benefit of the donor.

Organization providing loans. If you make,
or will make, loans for charitable and educational purposes, submit the following information.

Acceptance of attorneys' fees. A nonprofit public-interest law firm can accept attorneys' fees in public-interest cases if the fees are
paid directly by its clients and the fees aren't
more than the actual costs incurred in the case.
Upon undertaking a representation, the organization can't withdraw from the case because the
litigant is unable to pay the fee.
Firms can accept fees awarded or approved
by a court or an administrative agency and paid
by an opposing party if the firms don't use the
likelihood or probability of fee awards as a consideration in the selection of cases. All fee
awards must be paid to the organization and not
to its individual staff attorneys. Instead, a public-interest law firm can reasonably compensate
its staff attorneys, but only on a straight salary
basis. Private attorneys, whose services are retained by the firm to assist it in particular cases,
can be compensated by the firm, but only on a
fixed fee or salary basis.
The total amount of all attorneys' fees (court
awarded and those received from clients)
mustn't be more than 50% of the total cost of

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Chapter 3

1. A description of the facilities and services;
2. To whom the services are offered, such as
the public at large or a specific group;
3. How charges are determined, such as on
a profit basis, to recover costs, or at less
than cost;
4. By whom administered and controlled;
5. Whether any of the professional staff (that
is, those who perform or will perform the
clinical services) also serve or will serve in
an administrative capacity; and
6. How compensation paid to the professional staff is or will be determined.

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

operations of the organization's legal functions,
calculated over a 5-year period.
If, to carry out its program, an organization
violates applicable canons of ethics, disrupts
the judicial system, or engages in any illegal action, the organization will jeopardize its exemption.

Religious Organizations
To determine whether an organization meets
the religious purposes test of section 501(c)(3),
the IRS maintains two basic guidelines.
1. That the particular religious beliefs of the
organization are truly and sincerely held.
2. That the practices and rituals associated
with the organization's religious belief or
creed aren't illegal or contrary to clearly
defined public policy.
Therefore, your group (or organization) may not
qualify for treatment as an exempt religious organization for tax purposes if its actions, as contrasted with its beliefs, are contrary to well established and clearly defined public policy. If
there is a clear showing that the beliefs (or doctrines) are sincerely held by those professing
them, the IRS won't question the religious nature of those beliefs.
Churches. Although a church, its integrated
auxiliaries, or a convention or association of
churches isn't required to file Form 1023 to be
exempt from federal income tax or to receive tax
deductible contributions, the organization may
find it advantageous to obtain recognition of exemption. See Form 1023, Schedule A. In this
event, you should submit information showing
that your organization is a church, synagogue,
association or convention of churches, religious
order, or religious organization that is an integral
part of a church, and that it is engaged in carrying out the function of a church.
In determining whether an admittedly religious organization is also a church, the IRS
doesn't accept every assertion that the organization is a church. Because beliefs and practices vary widely, there is no single definition of
the word church for tax purposes. The IRS considers the facts and circumstances of each organization applying for church status.
Convention or association of churches.
Any organization that is otherwise a convention
or association of churches won't fail to qualify
as a church merely because the membership of
the organization includes individuals as well as
churches or because the individuals have voting
rights in the organization.
Integrated auxiliaries. An organization is
an integrated auxiliary of a church if all the following are true.
1. The organization is described both in sections 501(c)(3) and 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3).
2. It is affiliated with a church or a convention
or association of churches.
3. It is internally supported. An organization
is internally supported unless both of the
following are true.

29

a. It offers admissions, goods, services,
or facilities for sale, other than on an
incidental basis, to the general public
(except goods, services, or facilities
sold at a nominal charge or for a small
part of the cost).
b. It normally gets more than 50% of its
support from a combination of governmental sources, public solicitation of
contributions, and receipts from the
sale of admissions, goods, performance of services, or furnishing of facilities in activities that aren't unrelated trades or businesses.
Special rule. Men's and women's organizations, seminaries, mission societies, and youth
groups that satisfy (1) and (2) shown earlier are
integrated auxiliaries of a church even if they
aren't internally supported.
In order for an organization (including a
church and religious organization) to qualify for
tax exemption, no part of its net earnings can inure to any individual.
Although an individual is entitled to a charitable deduction for contributions to a church,
the assignment or similar transfer of compensation for personal services to a church generally
doesn't relieve a taxpayer of federal income tax
liability on the compensation, regardless of the
motivation behind the transfer.

Scientific Organizations
You must show that your organization's research will be carried on in the public interest.
Scientific research will be considered to be in
the public interest if the results of the research
(including any patents, copyrights, processes,
or formulas) are made available to the public on
a nondiscriminatory basis; if the research is performed for the United States or a state, county,
or municipal government; or if the research is
carried on for one of the following purposes.
1. Aiding in the scientific education of college
or university students.
2. Obtaining scientific information that is published in a treatise, thesis, trade publication, or in any other form that is available to
the interested public.
3. Discovering a cure for a disease.
4. Aiding a community or geographical area
by attracting new industry to the community or area, or by encouraging the development or retention of an industry in the
community or area.
Scientific research, for exemption purposes,
doesn't include activities of a type ordinarily incidental to commercial or industrial operations
such as the ordinary inspection or testing of materials or products, or the designing or constructing of equipment, buildings, etc.
If you engage or plan to engage in research,
submit all of the following.
1. An explanation of the nature of the research.
2. A brief description of research projects
completed or presently being engaged in.

30

3. How and by whom research projects are
determined and selected.
4. Whether you have contracted or sponsored research, or contemplated doing so,
and, if so, names of past sponsors or grantors, terms of grants or contracts, together
with copies of any executed contracts or
grants.
5. Disposition made or to be made of the results of your research, including whether
preference has been or will be given to any
organization or individual either as to results or time of release.
6. Who will retain ownership or control of any
patents, copyrights, processes, or formulas resulting from your research.
7. A copy of publications or other media
showing reports of your research activities.
Only reports of your research activities or
those conducted on your behalf, as distinguished from those of your creators or
members conducted in their individual capacities, should be submitted.

Literary Organizations
If your organization is established to operate a
book store or engage in publishing activities of
any nature (printing, publication, or distribution
of your own material or that printed or published
by others and distributed by you), explain fully
the nature of the operations, including whether
sales are or will be made to the general public,
the type of literature involved, and how these
activities are related to your stated purposes.

Amateur Athletic
Organizations
There are two types of amateur athletic organizations that can qualify for tax-exempt status.
The first type is an organization that fosters national or international amateur sports competition but only if none of its activities involve providing athletic facilities or equipment. The
second type is a Qualified amateur sports organization (discussed below). The difference is
that a qualified amateur sports organization can
provide athletic facilities and equipment.
Donations to either type of amateur athletic
organization are deductible as charitable contributions on the donor's federal income tax return. However, no deduction is allowed if there
is a direct personal benefit to the donor or any
other person other than the organization.
Qualified amateur sports organization. An
organization will be a qualified amateur sports
organization if it is organized and operated:
1. Exclusively to foster national or international amateur sports competition, and
2. Primarily to conduct national or international competition in sports or to support
and develop amateur athletes for that
competition.
The organization's membership can be local or
regional in nature.

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

Prevention of Cruelty
to Children or Animals
Examples of activities that may qualify this type
of organization for exempt status are:
1. Preventing children from working in hazardous trades or occupations,
2. Promoting high standards of care for laboratory animals, and
3. Providing funds to pet owners to have their
pets spayed or neutered to prevent overbreeding.

Private Foundations
and Public Charities
It is important that you determine if your organization is a private foundation. Most organizations exempt from income tax (such as organizations described in section 501(c)(3)) are
presumed to be private foundations unless they
notify the IRS within a specified period of time
that they meet the requirements of section
509(a) to be treated as other than a private
foundation. This notice requirement applies to
most section 501(c)(3) organizations regardless
of when they were formed. See Form 1023, Part
VII.

Private Foundations
Every organization that qualifies for tax exemption as an organization described in section
501(c)(3) is a private foundation unless it falls
into one of the categories specifically excluded
from the definition of that term (referred to in
sections 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2), 509(a)(3), or
509(a)(4)). In effect, the definition divides these
organizations into two classes, namely private
foundations and public charities. Public charities are discussed later.
Organizations that fall into the excluded categories are generally those that either have
broad public support or actively function in a
supporting relationship to those organizations.
Organizations that test for public safety are also
excluded.
Application to IRS. Even if an organization
falls within one of the categories excluded from
the definition of private foundation, it will be presumed to be a private foundation, with some exceptions, unless it files a timely Form 1023 or
Form 1023-EZ with the IRS showing it isn't a private foundation. This application requirement
applies to an organization regardless of when it
was organized. The only exceptions to this requirement are those organizations that are excepted from the requirement of filing Form 1023
or 1023-EZ as discussed, earlier, under Organizations Not Required To File Form 1023.
When to file application. If an organization has to file the application, it must do so
within 27 months from the end of the month in
which it was organized.
If your organization is newly applying for recognition of exemption as an organization described in this chapter (a section 501(c)(3)
Publication 557 (1-2025)

organization) and you wish to establish that
your organization is a public charity rather than
a private foundation, you must complete the applicable lines of Part VII of Form 1023 or Part IV
of Form 1023-EZ. See Application for Recognition of Exemption, earlier in this chapter, for
more information.
In determining the date on which a corporation is organized for purposes of applying for
recognition of section 501(c)(3) status, the IRS
looks to the date the corporation came into existence under the law of the state in which it is incorporated. For example, where state law provides that existence of a corporation begins on
the date its articles are filed by a certain state
official in the appropriate state office, the corporation is considered organized on that date.
Later nonsubstantive amendments to the enabling instrument won't change the date of organization, for purposes of the filing requirement.
Application filed late. An organization that
states it is a private foundation when it files its
application for recognition of exemption after
the 27-month period will be treated as a section
501(c)(3) organization and as a private foundation only from the date it files its application,
rather than the date that it was created or first
became described in section 501(c)(3). The organization may obtain retroactive exemption,
however, if it establishes that it qualifies for relief
from the 27-month deadline.
An organization that states it is a publicly
supported charity when it files its application for
recognition of exemption after the 27-month period can't be treated as a section 501(c)(3) organization before the date it files the application, except as discussed above. Financial
support received before that date can't be used
for purposes of determining whether the organization is publicly supported. However, an organization that can reasonably be expected to meet
the support requirements (discussed later under Public Charities) when it applies for tax-exempt status will be classified as a publicly supported charity and not a private foundation.
Excise taxes on private foundations. There
is an excise tax on the net investment income of
most domestic private foundations. In addition,
excise taxes may be imposed on the private
foundation or disqualified persons if the foundation or disqualified persons have engaged in
certain transactions or activities. Managers may
also be subject to excise tax for their role in approving the activity. See Chapter 5 for more information on excise taxes.
Governing instrument. A private foundation
can't be tax exempt nor will contributions to it be
deductible as charitable contributions unless its
governing instrument contains special provisions in addition to those that apply to all organizations described in section 501(c)(3).
Sample governing instruments. The following samples of governing instrument provisions illustrate the special charter requirements
that apply to private foundations. Draft A is a
sample of provisions in articles of incorporation;
Draft B, a trust indenture.

Draft A

The IRS has published a list of states with
this type of law. The list is in Revenue Ruling
75-38, 1975-1 C.B. 161 (or later update).

General
1. The corporation will distribute its income
for each tax year at a time and in a manner
as not to become subject to the tax on undistributed income imposed by section
4942 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the
corresponding section of any future federal tax code.
2. The corporation won't engage in any act of
self-dealing, as defined in section 4941(d)
of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax
code.
3. The corporation won't retain any excess
business holdings, as defined in section
4943(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, or
the corresponding section of any future
federal tax code.
4. The corporation won't make any investments in a manner as to subject it to tax
under section 4944 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of
any future federal tax code.
5. The corporation won't make any taxable
expenditures, as defined in section
4945(d) of the Internal Revenue Code, or
the corresponding section of any future
federal tax code.

Draft B
Any other provisions of this instrument notwithstanding, the trustees shall distribute its income
for each tax year at a time and in a manner as
not to become subject to the tax on undistributed income imposed by section 4942 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding
section of any future federal tax code.
Any other provisions of this instrument notwithstanding, the trustees won't engage in any
act of self-dealing as defined in section 4941(d)
of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax code;
nor retain any excess business holdings as defined in section 4943(c) of the Internal Revenue
Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax code; nor make any investments
in a manner as to incur tax liability under section
4944 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax
code; nor make any taxable expenditures as defined in section 4945 (d) of the Internal Revenue
Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax code.
Effect of state law. A private foundation's governing instrument will be considered to meet
these charter requirements if valid provisions of
state law have been enacted that:

Public Charities
A private foundation is any organization described in Section 501(c)(3), unless it falls into one
of the categories specifically excluded from the
definition of that term in section 509(a), which
lists four basic categories of exclusions. These
categories are discussed under the Section
509(a)(1), 509(a)(2), 509(a)(3), and 509(a)(4)
Organizations headings that follow this introduction. See Section 509(a)(1) Organizations, etc.
If your organization falls into one of these
categories, it isn't a private foundation and you
should state this in Part VII of Form 1023 or Part
IV of Form 1023-EZ.
If your organization doesn't fall into one of
these categories, it is a private foundation and
is subject to the applicable rules and restrictions
until it terminates its private foundation status.
Some private foundations also qualify as private
operating foundations; these are discussed
near the end of this chapter.
Generally speaking, a large class of organizations excluded under section 509(a)(1) and
all organizations excluded under section 509(a)
(2) depend upon a support test. This test is
used to assure a minimum percentage of
broad-based public support in the organization's total support pattern. Thus, in the following discussions, when the one-third support test
(see Qualifying as Publicly Supported, later) is
referred to, it means the following fraction normally must equal at least one-third.
Qualifying support
Total support

Including items of support in qualifying
support (the numerator of the fraction)
CAUTION or excluding items of support from total
support (the denominator of the fraction) may
decide whether an organization is excluded
from the definition of a private foundation, and
thus from the liability for certain excise taxes. It
is very important to classify items of support
correctly.

!

Section 509(a)(1) Organizations
Section 509(a)(1) organizations include:
1. A church or a convention or association of
churches (section 170(b)(1)(A)(i)),
2. An educational organization such as a
school or college (section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii)),
3. A hospital or medical research organization operated in conjunction with a hospital
(section 170(b)(1)(A)(iii)),

1. Require it to act or refrain from acting so
as not to subject the foundation to the
taxes imposed on prohibited transactions,
or

4. Endowment funds operated for the benefit
of certain state and municipal colleges
and universities (section 170(b)(1)(A)(iv)),

2. Treat the required provisions as contained
in the foundation's governing instrument.

5. A governmental unit (section 170(b)(1)(A)
(v)),
6. An agricultural research organization (section 170(b)(1)(A)(xi)), and

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

31

7. A publicly supported organization (section
170(b)(1)(A)(vi)).
Church. The characteristics of a church are
discussed earlier in this chapter under Religious
Organizations.
Educational organizations. An educational
organization that qualifies as a public charity under section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) is one whose primary function is to present formal instruction
that normally maintains a regular faculty and
curriculum and that normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance
at the place where it regularly carries on its educational activities. The term includes institutions
such as primary, secondary, preparatory, or
high schools, and colleges and universities. It
includes federal, state, and other publicly supported schools that otherwise come within the
definition. It doesn't include organizations engaged in both educational and noneducational
activities, unless the latter are merely incidental
to the educational activities. A recognized university that incidentally operates a museum or
sponsors concerts is an educational organization. However, the operation of a school by a
museum doesn't necessarily qualify the museum as an educational organization.
An exempt organization that operates a tutoring service for students on a one-to-one basis in their homes, maintains a small center to
test students to determine their need for tutoring, and employs tutors on a part-time basis
isn't an educational organization for these purposes. Nor is an exempt organization that conducts an internship program by placing college
and university students with cooperating government agencies an educational organization.
Hospitals and medical research organizations. A hospital described in section 170(b)(1)
(A)(iii) is an organization whose principal purpose or function is to provide hospital or medical care or either medical education or medical
research. A rehabilitation institution, outpatient
clinic, or community mental health or drug treatment center may qualify as a hospital if its principal purpose or function is providing hospital or
medical care. If the accommodations of an organization qualify as being part of a skilled
nursing facility, that organization may qualify as
a hospital if its principal purpose or function is
providing hospital or medical care.
Exceptions. The term hospital doesn't include convalescent homes, homes for children
or the aged, or institutions whose principal purpose or function is to train handicapped individuals to pursue a vocation. An organization that
mainly provides medical education or medical
research won't be considered a hospital, unless
it is also actively engaged in providing medical
or hospital care to patients on its premises or in
its facilities, on an in-patient or out-patient basis, as an integral part of its medical education
or medical research functions.
A cooperative hospital service organization
that meets the requirements of section 501(e)
will qualify as a hospital.

operates a hospital that participates in a provider-sponsored organization, whether or not
the provider-sponsored organization is tax exempt. For section 501(c)(3) purposes, any person with a material financial interest in the provider-sponsored organization is treated as a
private shareholder or individual with respect to
the hospital.
Requirements for section 501(c)(3) hospitals under the Affordable Care Act. The
Affordable Care Act (ACA), enacted March 23,
2010, added requirements that hospital organizations must satisfy in order to be described in
section 501(c)(3), as well as reporting and excise taxes.
Requirements for charitable hospitals.
Section 501(r), added to the Code by the ACA,
imposes requirements on section 501(c)(3) organizations that operate one or more hospital
facilities (hospital organizations). Each section
501(c)(3) hospital organization is required to
meet four general requirements on a facility-by-facility basis:
• establish written financial assistance and
emergency medical care policies,
• limit amounts charged for emergency or
other medically necessary care to individuals eligible for assistance under the hospital's FAP,
• make reasonable efforts to determine
whether an individual is eligible for assistance under the hospital’s FAP before engaging in extraordinary collection actions
against the individual, and
• conduct a community health needs assessment (CHNA) at least once every 3
years. (This CHNA requirement is effective
for tax years beginning after March 23,
2012).
The ACA also added section 4959, which
imposes an excise tax for failure to meet the
CHNA requirements, and added reporting requirements under section 6033(b) related to
sections 501(r) and 4959. See Regulations sections 1.501(r)-1 through 1.501(r)-7.
Correction and disclosure procedures
under section 501(r). Revenue Procedure
2015–21 provides correction and disclosure
procedures under which certain failures to meet
the requirements of section 501(r) will be excused for purposes of sections 501(r)(1) and
501(r)(2)(B). See Rev. Proc. 2015–21, 2015-13
I.R.B. 817, or later guidance.
Medical research organization. A medical research organization must be directly engaged in the continuous active conduct of medical research in conjunction with a hospital, and
that activity must be the organization's principal
purpose or function.
Endowment funds. Organizations operated
for the benefit of certain state and municipal colleges and universities may be endowment
funds described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(iv).
They are organized and operated exclusively to:
1. Receive, hold, invest, and administer property for a college or university; and

Hospitals participating in provider-sponsored organizations. An organization can be
treated as organized and operated exclusively
for a charitable purpose even if it owns and

The college or university must be:

32

Chapter 3

2. Make expenditures to or for the benefit of a
college or university;

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

1. An agency or instrumentality of a state or
political subdivision; or
2. Owned or operated by:
a. A state or political subdivision; or
b. An agency or instrumentality of one or
more states or political subdivisions.
The phrase “expenditures to or for the benefit of a college or university” includes expenditures made for any one or more of the normal
functions of a college or university. These expenditures include those for:
1. Acquiring and maintaining real property
comprising part of the campus area;
2. Erecting (or participating in erecting) college or university buildings;
3. Acquiring and maintaining equipment and
furnishings used for, or in conjunction with,
normal functions of colleges and universities;
4. Libraries;
5. Scholarships; and
6. Student loans.
The organization must normally receive a
substantial part of its support from the United
States or any state or political subdivision, or
from direct or indirect contributions from the
general public, or from a combination of these
sources.
Support. Support doesn't include income
received in the exercise or performance by the
organization of its charitable, educational, or
other purpose or function constituting the basis
for exemption.
In determining the amount of support received by an organization for a contribution of
property when the value of the contribution by
the donor is subject to reduction for certain ordinary income and capital gain property, the fair
market value of the property is taken into account.
Indirect contribution. An example of an
indirect contribution from the public is the receipt by the organization of its share of the proceeds of an annual collection campaign of a
community chest, community fund, or united
fund.
Governmental units. A governmental unit described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(v) includes a
state, a territory of the United States, or a political subdivision of either of the foregoing, or the
United States or the District of Columbia.
Agricultural research organizations. Agricultural research organizations described in
section 170(b)(1)(A)(ix) operated in conjunction
with a land-grant college or university or a
non-land-grant college of agriculture may now
qualify for public charity status. See the Instructions for Form 1023 for more information.
Publicly supported organizations. An organization is a publicly supported organization if it
is one that normally receives a substantial part
of its support from a governmental unit or from
the general public.

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Types of organizations that generally qualify
are:
• Museums of history, art, or science;
• Libraries;
• Community centers to promote the arts;
• Organizations providing facilities for the
support of an opera, symphony orchestra,
ballet, or repertory drama, or for some
other direct service to the general public;
and
• Organizations such as the American Red
Cross or the United Way.

Qualifying as Publicly Supported
An organization will qualify as publicly supported under section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) if it passes
the one-third support test. If it fails that test, it
may qualify under the facts and circumstances
test. An organization may also qualify as publicly supported under section 509(a)(2). See
Section 509(a)(2) Organizations, later.
One-third support test. An organization will
qualify as publicly supported under section
170(b)(1)(A)(vi) if it normally receives at least
one-third of its total support from governmental
units, from contributions made directly or indirectly by the general public, or from a combination of these sources. For a definition of support, see Support, later.
Definition of normally for one-third support test. An organization will be considered
as normally meeting the one-third support test
under section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) for its current tax
year and the next tax year if, for the current tax
year and the 4 tax years immediately before the
current tax year, the organization meets the
one-third support test on an aggregate basis.
See also Computation period for public support
(Special computation period for new organizations) later, in this discussion.
Facts and circumstances test. The facts and
circumstances test is for organizations failing to
meet the one-third support test. If your organization fails to meet the one-third support test, it
may still be treated as a publicly supported organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi)
if it normally receives a substantial part of its
support from governmental units, from direct or
indirect contributions from the general public, or
from a combination of these sources. To qualify,
an organization must meet the ten-percent-of-support requirement and the attraction
of public support requirement. These requirements establish, under all the facts and circumstances, that an organization normally receives
a substantial part of its support from governmental units or from direct or indirect contributions from the general public. The organization
must also be in the nature of a publicly supported organization, taking into account five different factors. See Additional requirements (the
five public support factors), later.
Ten-percent-of-support
requirement.
The percentage of support normally received by
an organization from governmental units, from
contributions made directly or indirectly by the
general public, or from a combination of these
sources must be substantial. An organization
won't be treated as normally receiving a substantial amount of governmental or public
Publication 557 (1-2025)

support unless the total amount of governmental and public support normally received is at
least 10% of the total support normally received
by that organization.
Attraction of public support requirement. An organization must be organized and
operated in a manner to attract new and additional public or governmental support on a continuous basis. An organization will meet this requirement if it maintains a continuous and bona
fide program for solicitation of funds from the
general public, community, or membership
group involved, or if it carries on activities designed to attract support from governmental
units or other charitable organizations described in section 509(a)(1). In determining
whether an organization maintains a continuous
and bona fide program for solicitation of funds
from the general public or community, consideration will be given to whether the scope of its
fundraising activities is reasonable in light of its
charitable activities. Consideration will also be
given to the fact that an organization may, in its
early years of existence, limit the scope of its
solicitation to persons who would be most likely
to provide seed money sufficient to enable it to
begin its charitable activities and expand its solicitation program.
Definition of normally for facts and circumstances test. An organization will normally meet the requirements of the facts and
circumstances test for its current tax year and
the next tax year if, for the current tax year and
the 4 tax years immediately before the current
tax year, the organization meets the ten-percent-of-support and the attraction of public support requirements on an aggregate basis and
satisfies a sufficient combination of the factors
discussed later. The combination of factors that
an organization normally must meet doesn't
have to be the same for each 4-year period as
long as a sufficient combination of factors exists
to show compliance.
Additional requirements (the five public
support factors). In addition to the two requirements of the facts and circumstances test,
the following five public support factors will be
considered in determining whether an organization is publicly supported. However, an organization generally doesn't have to satisfy all of the
factors. The factors relevant to each case and
the weight accorded to any one of them may differ depending upon the nature and purpose of
the organization and the length of time it has existed. The combination of factors that an organization normally must meet doesn't have to be
the same for each 4-year period as long as a
sufficient combination of factors exists to show
that the organization is publicly supported.
1. Percentage of financial support factor.
When an organization normally receives at least
10% but less than one-third of its total support
from public or governmental sources, the percentage of support received from those sources
will be considered in determining whether the
organization is publicly supported. As the percentage of support from public or governmental
sources increases, the burden of establishing
the publicly supported nature of the organization through other factors decreases, while the
lower the percentage, the greater the burden.
Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

If the percentage of the organization's support from the general public or governmental
sources is low because it receives a high percentage of its total support from investment income on its endowment funds, the organization
will be treated as complying with this factor if
the endowment fund was originally contributed
by a governmental unit or by the general public.
However, if the endowment funds were originally contributed by a few individuals or members of their families, this fact will increase the
burden on the organization to establish compliance with other factors. Facts pertinent to years
before the 4 tax years immediately before the
current tax year may also be considered.
2. Sources of support factor. If an organization normally receives at least 10% but less
than one-third of its total support from public or
governmental sources, the fact that it receives
the support from governmental units or directly
or indirectly from a representative number of
persons, rather than receiving almost all of its
support from the members of a single family, will
be considered in determining whether the organization is publicly supported. In determining
what is a representative number of persons,
consideration will be given to the type of organization involved, the length of time it has existed,
and whether it limits its activities to a particular
community or region or to a special field that
can be expected to appeal to a limited number
of persons. Facts pertinent to years before the 4
tax years immediately before the current tax
year may also be considered.
3. Representative governing body factor.
The fact that an organization has a governing
body that represents the broad interests of the
public rather than the personal or private interest of a limited number of donors will be considered in determining whether the organization is
publicly supported.
An organization will meet this requirement if
it has a governing body composed of:
1. Public officials acting in their public capacities,
2. Individuals selected by public officials acting in their public capacities,
3. Persons having special knowledge or expertise in the particular field or discipline in
which the organization is operating, and
4. Community leaders, such as elected or
appointed officials, members of the clergy,
educators, civic leaders, or other such persons representing a broad cross-section
of the views and interests of the community.
In a membership organization, the governing
body should also include individuals elected by
a broadly based membership according to the
organization's governing instrument or bylaws.
4. Availability of public facilities or services factor. The fact that an organization generally provides facilities or services directly for
the benefit of the general public on a continuing
basis is evidence that the organization is publicly supported. Examples are:
• A museum or library that is open to the
public,
• A symphony orchestra that gives public
performances,
33

• A conservation organization that provides

educational services to the public through
the distribution of educational materials, or
• An old-age home that provides domiciliary
or nursing services for members of the
general public.

The fact that an educational or research institution regularly publishes scholarly studies widely
used by colleges and universities or by members of the general public is also evidence that
the organization is publicly supported.
Similarly, the following factors are also evidence that an organization is publicly supported.
1. Participating in, or sponsoring, the programs of the organization by members of
the public having special knowledge or expertise, public officials, or civic or community leaders.
2. Maintaining a definitive program by the organization to accomplish its charitable
work in the community, such as slum
clearance or developing employment opportunities.
3. Receiving a significant part of its funds
from a public charity or governmental
agency to which it is in some way held accountable as a condition of the grant, contract, or contribution.
5. Additional factors pertinent to membership organizations. The following are additional factors in determining whether a membership organization is publicly supported.
1. Whether the solicitation for dues-paying
members is designed to enroll a substantial number of persons in the community or
area, or in a particular profession or field of
special interest (taking into account the
size of the area and the nature of the organization's activities).
2. Whether membership dues for individual
(rather than institutional) members have
been fixed at rates designed to make
membership available to a broad cross
section of the interested public, rather than
to restrict membership to a limited number
of persons.
3. Whether the activities of the organization
will be likely to appeal to persons having
some broad common interest or purpose,
such as educational activities in the case
of alumni associations, musical activities
in the case of symphony societies, or civic
affairs in the case of parent-teacher associations.
Special rule. The fact that an organization
has normally met the one-third support test requirements for a current tax year, but is unable
normally to meet the requirements for a later tax
year, won't in itself prevent the organization from
meeting the requirements of the facts and circumstances test for the later tax year.
Example. X is recognized as an organization described in section 501(c)(3). On the basis of support received during tax years 2020,
2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024, it meets the
one-third support test for tax year 2024 (the current tax year). X also meets the one-third
34

support test for 2025, as the immediately succeeding tax year.
In tax years 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and
2024, in the aggregate, X doesn't receive at
least one-third of its support from governmental
units referred to in section 170(c)(1), from contributions made directly or indirectly by the general public, or from a combination of these sources. X still meets the one-third support test for
tax year 2024 based on the aggregate support
received for tax years 2020 through 2024.
In tax years 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, and
2025, in the aggregate, X doesn't receive at
least one-third of its support from governmental
units referred to in section 170(c)(1), from contributions made directly or indirectly by the general public, or from a combination of these sources. X doesn't meet the one-third support test
for tax year 2024.
Based on the aggregate support and other
factors listed in Regulations section 1.170A-9(f)
(3)(iii)(A) through (E) for tax years 2020, 2021,
2022, 2023, and 2024, X meets the facts and
circumstances test for tax year 2024 and for tax
year 2025 (as the immediately succeeding tax
year). Therefore, X is still an organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) for tax year
2024 even though X didn't meet the one-third
support test for that year.
Special computation period for new organizations (Computation period for public support). If, at the time of applying for tax-exempt
status, an organization can reasonably be expected to meet the one-third support test or the
facts and circumstances test during its first 5 tax
years, the organization will qualify as publicly
supported for its first 5 years. The organization
will be classified as a public charity for its first 5
years, regardless of the public support actually
received during this period. Beginning with the
organization's sixth tax year, the organization
will qualify as publicly supported if it meets the
one-third support test or the facts and circumstances test for its sixth year (based on support
received in its second through sixth tax years),
or as a carryover for its fifth tax year (based on
support received in its first through fifth tax
years). If the organization is required to file
Form 990 or 990-EZ, it must establish that it
meets the public support test each year on
Schedule A (Form 990).
Reasonable expectation of public support. An organization that can reasonably be
expected to meet the one-third support test or
the facts and circumstances test during its first
5 years is one that can show that its organizational structure, current or proposed programs
and activities, and actual or intended method of
operation can reasonably be expected to attract
the type of broadly based support from the general public, public charities, and governmental
units that is necessary to meet the public support requirements discussed earlier under Qualifying As Publicly Supported.
Example. Organization Y was formed in
January 2017 and uses a December 31 tax
year. After September 9, 2017, and before December 31, 2017, Organization Y filed a Form
1023 requesting recognition of exemption as an
organization described in section 501(c)(3) and
in sections 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) and 509(a)(1). In its
application, Organization Y established that it
Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

can reasonably be expected to meet the
one-third support test. Organization Y receives
a determination letter that it is an organization
described in section 501(c)(3) and sections
170(b)(1)(A)(vi) and 509(a)(1) effective as of
the date of formation.
Organization Y is described in sections
170(b)(1)(A)(vi) and 509(a)(1) for its first 5 tax
years (tax years ending December 31, 2017,
through December 31, 2021). Organization Y
can qualify as a public charity beginning with
the tax year ending December 31, 2021, if Organization Y meets the one-third support test or
facts and circumstances test for the tax years
ending December 31, 2018, through December
31, 2022, or for the tax years ending December
31, 2017, through December 31, 2021.
Determinations of public support status.
An organization may request a determination
letter that it is described in section 170(b)(1)(A)
(vi). This request is made on Form 1023 or
Form 1023-EZ, or at such other time as the organization believes it is described in section
170(b)(1)(A)(vi). The IRS may revoke the section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) determination letter if, on
examination, the organization has not met the
requirements. The IRS may also revoke the section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) determination letter if the
organization's application for a determination
contained an omission or inaccurate material information.
Reliance by grantors or contributors. As
a general rule, grantors or contributors may rely
on a determination that an organization is described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi) until notice of
change of status of the organization is made to
the public. The IRS publishes such notices from
time to time in the Internal Revenue Bulletin,
IRS.gov/irb/. Grantors and contributors can also
find information about an organization’s exempt
status under section 501(c)(3) and its status as
a public charity or private foundation from TaxExempt Organization Search. However, a grantor or contributor can’t rely on a detrermination
letter or information on Tax-Exempt Organization Search if the grantor or contributor was responsible for, or aware of, the act or failure to
act that resulted in the organization's loss of
classification as a publicly supported organization.
Support. For purposes of publicly supported
organizations, the term support includes (but
isn't limited to):
1. Gifts, grants, contributions, or membership
fees;
2. Net income from unrelated business activities, whether or not those activities are
carried on regularly as a trade or business;
3. Gross investment income;
4. Tax revenues levied for the benefit of an
organization and either paid to or spent on
behalf of the organization; and
5. The value of services or facilities furnished
by a governmental unit to an organization
without charge (except services or facilities generally furnished to the public without charge).
Amounts that aren't support. The term
support doesn't include:
Publication 557 (1-2025)

1. Any amount received from the exercise or
performance by an organization of the purpose or function constituting the basis for
its exemption (in general, these amounts
include amounts received from any activity
the conduct of which is substantially related to the furtherance of the exempt purpose or function, other than through the
production of income); or
2. Contributions of services for which a deduction isn't allowed.
These amounts are excluded from both the numerator and the denominator of the fractions in
determining compliance with the one-third support test and ten-percent-of-support requirement. The following discusses an exception to
this general rule.
Organizations dependent primarily on
gross receipts from related activities. Organizations won't satisfy the one-third support
test or the ten-percent-of-support requirement if
they receive:
1. Almost all support from gross receipts
from related activities; and
2. An insignificant amount of support from
governmental units (without regard to
amounts referred to in (3) in the list of
items included in support) and contributions made directly or indirectly by the
general public.
Example. Z, an organization described in
section 501(c)(3), is controlled by Thomas Blue,
its president. Z received $500,000 during the
current tax year and the 4 tax years immediately
before its current tax year under a contract with
the Department of Transportation, under which
Z engaged in research to improve a particular
vehicle used primarily by the federal government. During the same period, the only other
support received by Z was $5,000 in small contributions primarily from Z's employees and
business associates. The $500,000 is gross receipts from a related activity and not support
from a governmental unit, because the services
are provided to serve the direct and immediate
needs of the payor rather than primarily to confer a direct benefit on the public. Because of this
fact, and because Z's contributions from the
public are insignificant, Z doesn't meet the
one-third support test or the ten-percent-of-support requirement.
For the rules that apply to organizations that
fail to qualify as section 509(a)(1) publicly supported organizations because of these provisions, see Section 509(a)(2) Organizations,
later. See also Gross receipts from a related activity in the discussion on section 509(a)(2) organizations.

received on a contract entered into with a governmental unit for the performance of services,
or from a government research grant. However,
these amounts aren't support from a governmental unit for these purposes if they constitute
amounts received from the exercise or performance of the organization's exempt functions.
Any amount paid by a governmental unit to
an organization won't be treated as received
from the exercise or performance of its exempt
function if the purpose of the payment is primarily to enable the organization to provide a service to, or maintain a facility for, the direct benefit
of the public (regardless of whether part of the
expense of providing the service or facility is
paid for by the public), rather than to serve the
direct and immediate needs of the payor. This
includes:
1. Amounts paid to maintain library facilities
that are open to the public,
2. Amounts paid under government programs to nursing homes or homes for the
aged to provide health care or domiciliary
services to residents of these facilities,
and
3. Amounts paid to child placement or child
guidance organizations under government
programs for services rendered to children
in the community.
These payments are mainly to enable the recipient organization to provide a service or maintain
a facility for the direct benefit of the public,
rather than to serve the direct and immediate
needs of the payor. Furthermore, any amount
received from a governmental unit under circumstances in which the amount would be treated as a grant will generally constitute support
from a governmental unit. See the discussion of
Grants, later, under Section 509(a)(2) Organizations.
Medicare and Medicaid payments. Medicare and Medicaid payments are received from
contracts entered into with state and federal
governmental units. However, payments are
made for services already provided to eligible
individuals, rather than to encourage or enable
an organization to provide services to the public. The individual patient, not a governmental
unit, actually controls the ultimate recipient of
these payments by selecting the health care organization. As a result, these payments aren't
considered support from a governmental unit.
Medicare and Medicaid payments are gross receipts derived from the exercise or performance
of exempt activities and, therefore, aren't included in the term support.

Support from a governmental unit. For purposes of the one-third support test and the
ten-percent-of-support requirement, the term
support from a governmental unit includes any
amounts received from a governmental unit, including donations or contributions and amounts

Support from the general public. In determining whether the one-third support test or the
ten-percent-of-support requirement is met, include in your computation support from direct or
indirect contributions from the general public.
This includes contributions from an individual,
trust, or corporation but only to the extent that
the total contributions from the individual, trust,
or corporation, during the current tax year and
the 4-year period immediately before the current tax year, aren't more than 2% of the organization's total support for the same period.
Thus, a contribution by any one individual
will be included in full in the denominator of the

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Chapter 3

Membership fees. Membership fees are
included in the term support if they are paid to
provide support for the organization rather than
to buy admissions, merchandise, services, or
the use of facilities.

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

fraction used in the one-third support test or the
ten-percent-of-support requirement. However,
the contribution will be included in the numerator only to the extent that it isn't more than 2% of
the denominator. In applying the 2% limit, all
contributions made by a donor and by any person in a special relationship to the donor (certain Disqualified persons discussed under Absence of control by disqualified persons, later)
are considered made by one person. The 2%
limit doesn't apply to support received from governmental units or to contributions from other
publicly supported charities, except as provided
under Grants from public charities, later.
Indirect contributions. The term indirect
contributions from the general public includes
contributions received by the organization from
organizations (such as publicly supported organizations) that normally receive a substantial
part of their support from direct contributions
from the general public, except as provided under Grants from public charities, next.
Grants from public charities. Contributions received from a governmental unit or from
a publicly supported organization (including a
church that meets the requirements for being
publicly supported) aren't subject to the 2% limit
unless the contributions represent amounts either expressly or impliedly earmarked by a donor to the governmental unit or publicly supported organization as being for, or for the benefit
of, the particular organization claiming a publicly
supported status.
Example 1. M, a national foundation for the
encouragement of the musical arts, is a publicly
supported organization. George Spruce gives
M a donation of $5,000 without imposing any
restrictions or conditions upon the gift. M later
makes a $5,000 grant to X, an organization devoted to giving public performances of chamber
music. Since the grant to X is treated as being
received from M, it is fully includible in the numerator of X's support fraction for the tax year
of receipt.
Example 2. Assume M is the same organization described in Example 1. Tom Grove
gives M a donation of $10,000, but requires that
M spend the money to support organizations
devoted to the advancement of contemporary
American music. M has complete discretion as
to the organizations of the type described to
which it will make a grant. M decides to make
grants of $5,000 each to Y and Z, both being organizations described in section 501(c)(3) and
devoted to furthering contemporary American
music. Since the grants to Y and Z are treated
as having been received from M, Y and Z each
may include one of the $5,000 grants in the numerator of its support fraction. Although the
donation to M was conditioned upon the use of
the funds for a particular purpose, M was free to
select the ultimate recipient.
Example 3. N is a national foundation for
the encouragement of art and is a publicly supported organization. Grants to N are permitted
to be earmarked for particular purposes. O,
which is an art workshop devoted to training
young artists and which is claiming status as a
publicly supported organization, persuades C, a
private foundation, to make a grant of $25,000
35

to N. C is a disqualified person with respect to
O. C makes the grant to N with the understanding that N would be bound to make a grant to O
in the sum of $25,000, in addition to a matching
grant of N's funds to O in the sum of $25,000.
Only the $25,000 received directly from N is
considered a grant from N. The other $25,000 is
an indirect contribution from C to O and is to be
excluded from the numerator of O's support
fraction to the extent it exceeds the 2% limit.
Unusual grants. In applying the 2% limit to determine whether the one-third support test or
the ten-percent-of-support requirement is met,
exclude contributions that are considered unusual grants from both the numerator and denominator of the appropriate percent-of-support
fraction. Generally, unusual grants are substantial contributions or bequests from disinterested
parties if the contributions:
1. Are attracted by the publicly supported nature of the organization;
2. Are unusual or unexpected in amount; and
3. Would adversely affect, because of the
size, the status of the organization as normally being publicly supported. (The organization must otherwise meet the support test in that year without benefit of the
grant or contribution.)
For a grant (see Grants, later) that meets the requirements for exclusion, if the terms of the
granting instrument require that the funds be
paid to the recipient organization over a period
of years, the amount received by the organization each year under the terms of the grant may
be excluded for that year. However, no item of
gross investment income (defined under Section 509(a)(2) Organizations, later) may be excluded under this rule.
Characteristics of an unusual grant. A
grant or contribution will be considered an unusual grant if the previous three factors apply
and if it has all of the following characteristics. If
these factors and characteristics apply, then
even without the benefit of an advance ruling,
grantors or contributors have assurance that
they won't be considered responsible for substantial and material changes in the organization's sources of support status. See section
7.08 of Rev. Proc. 2018-32, 2018-23 I.R.B. 739.
1. The grant or contribution isn't made by a
person (or related person) who created
the organization or was a substantial contributor to the organization before the grant
or contribution.
2. The grant or contribution isn't made by a
person (or related person) who is in a position of authority, such as a foundation
manager, or who otherwise has the ability
to exercise control over the organization.
Similarly, the grant or contribution isn't
made by a person (or related person) who,
because of the grant or contribution, obtains a position of authority or the ability to
otherwise exercise control over the organization.
3. The grant or contribution is in the form of
cash, readily marketable securities, or assets that directly further the organization's
36

exempt purposes, such as a gift of a painting to a museum.
4. The donee organization has received a final determination letter classifying it as a
publicly supported organization and the
organization is actively engaged in a program of activities in furtherance of its exempt purpose.
5. No material restrictions or conditions have
been imposed by the grantor or contributor
upon the organization in connection with
the grant or contribution.
6. If the grant or contribution is intended for
operating expenses, rather than capital
items, the terms and amount of the grant
or contribution are expressly limited to 1
year's operating expenses.
Determination request. Before any grant
or contribution is made, a potential grantee organization can request a determination as to
whether the grant or contribution may be excluded as an unusual grant. This request can be
filed by the grantee organization by submitting
Form 8940, Request for Miscellaneous Determination, supporting documents described in the
Instructions for Form 8940, and the appropriate
user fee. The organization must submit all information necessary to support a determination,
including information relating to the factors and
characteristics listed in the preceding paragraphs. If a favorable determination is issued,
the determination can be relied upon by the
grantor or contributor of the particular contribution in question. The issuance of the determination will be at the sole discretion of the IRS.
Grants and contributions that fail to qualify
for exclusion will affect the way the support tests
are applied. See Additional requirements (the
five public support factors), earlier.
If a determination is requested, in addition to
the characteristics listed earlier under Characteristics of an unusual grant, the following factors may be considered by the IRS in determining if the grant or contribution is an unusual
grant.
1. Whether the contribution was a bequest or
a transfer while living. A bequest will be
given more favorable consideration than a
transfer while living.
2. Whether, before the receipt of the contribution, the organization has carried on an
active program of public solicitation and
exempt activities and has been able to attract a significant amount of public support.
3. Whether, before the year of contribution,
the organization met the one-third support
test without benefit of any exclusions of
unusual grants.
4. Whether the organization may reasonably
be expected to attract a significant amount
of public support after the contribution.
Continued reliance on unusual grants to
fund an organization's current operating
expenses (as opposed to providing new
endowment funds) may be evidence that
the organization can't reasonably be expected to attract future support from the
general public.
Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

5. Whether the organization has a representative governing body.

Comprehensive Examples
Example 1. M is recognized as an organization described in section 501(c)(3). For the
years 2017 through 2021 (the applicable period
for the tax year 2021 under Regulations section
1.170A-9(f)(3)), M received support (as defined
in paragraphs Regulations section 1.170A-9(f)
(6) through (8)) of $600,000 from the following
sources:
Investment Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
City Y (a governmental unit described in
section 170(c)(1)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
United Way (an organization described in
section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi)) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$300,000
40,000

Total support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$600,000

40,000
220,000

For tax year 2021, M's public support is computed as follows:
One-third of total support . . . . . . . . . . .
Support from a governmental unit
described in section 170(c)(1) . . . . . . . .
Indirect contributions from the general
public (United Way) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contributions by various donors (no one
having made contributions that total more
than $12,000—2% of total support) . . . .
Six contributions (each in excess of
$12,000—2% of total support) 6 ×
$12,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$200,000
$40,000
40,000

50,000
72,000
$202,000

M's support from governmental units and from
direct and indirect contributions from the general public for the 2019 tax year normally exceeds one-third of M's total support
($202,000/$600,000 = 33.67%) for the applicable period (2016 through 2020). M meets the
one-third support test for 2020 and is therefore
publicly supported for the tax years 2021 and
2022.
Example 2. N is recognized as an organization described in section 501(c)(3). It was
created to maintain public gardens containing
botanical specimens and displaying statuary
and other art objects. The facilities, works of art,
and a large endowment were all contributed by
a single contributor. The members of the governing body of the organization are unrelated to
its creator. The gardens are open to the public
without charge and attract many visitors each
year. For the current tax year and the 4 tax
years preceding the current tax year, 95% of the
organization's total support was received from
investment income from its original endowment.
N also maintains a membership society that is
supported by members of the general public
who wish to contribute to the upkeep of the gardens by paying a small annual membership fee.
Over the 5-year period in question, these fees
from the general public constituted the remaining 5% of the organization's total support. Under these circumstances, N doesn't meet the
one-third support test for its current tax year.
Furthermore, since only 5% was received from
the general public, N doesn't satisfy the 10%
Publication 557 (1-2025)

support limitation under Regulations section
1.170A-9(f)(3)(i), and therefore doesn't qualify
as publicly supported under the facts and circumstances test. Because N has failed to satisfy the 10% support limitation, none of the
other requirements or factors in Regulations
section 1.170A-9(f)(3)(iii)(A) through (E) can be
considered in determining whether N qualifies
as a publicly supported organization. For its current tax year, N isn't an organization described
in section 170(b)(1)(A)(vi).
Example 3. O, an art museum, is recognized as an organization described in section
501(c)(3). In 1930, O was founded in S City by
members of a single family to collect, preserve,
interpret, and display to the public important
works of art. O is governed by a Board of Trustees that originally consisted almost entirely of
members of the founding family. However, since
1945, members of the founding family or persons standing in relationship to the members of
that family described in section 4946(a)(1)(C)
through (G) have annually constituted less than
one-fifth of the Board of Trustees. The remaining board members are citizens of S City from a
variety of professions and occupations who represent the interests and views of the people of S
City in the activities carried on by the organization rather than the personal or private interests
of the founding family. O solicits contributions
from the general public, and for the current tax
year and each of the 4 tax years immediately
preceding the current tax year, O has received
total contributions (in small sums of less than
$100, none of which exceeds 2% of O's total
support for such period) in excess of $10,000.
These contributions from the general public represent 25% of the organization's total support
for that 5-year period. For the same period, investment income from several large endowment
funds has constituted 75% of O's total support.
O expends substantially all of its annual income
for its exempt purposes and thus depends on
the funds it annually solicits from the public as
well as its investment income in order to carry
out its activities on a normal and continuing basis and to acquire new works of art. O has, for
the entire period of its existence, been open to
the public and more than 300,000 people (from
S City and elsewhere) have visited the museum
in the current tax year and the 4 years immediately preceding the current tax year.
Under these circumstances, O doesn't meet
the one-third support test for its current year because it has received only 25% of its total support for the applicable 5-year period from the
general public. However, under the facts set
forth, O has met the 10% support limitation under Regulations section 1.170A-9(f)(3)(i), as
well as the requirements of Regulations section
1.170A-9(f)(3)(ii). Under all of the facts set forth,
O is considered as meeting the requirements of
the facts and circumstances test on the basis of
satisfying Regulations section 1.170A-9(f)(3)(iii)
(A) through (D). O is therefore publicly supported for its current tax year and the immediately
succeeding tax year.

community. P is recognized as an organization
described in section 501(c)(3). The orchestra is
composed of professional musicians who are
paid by the association. Twelve performances,
open to the public, are scheduled each year. A
small admission charge is made for each of
these performances. In addition, several performances are staged annually without charge.
During the current tax year and the 4 tax
years immediately preceding the current tax
year, P received separate contributions of
$200,000 each from A and B (not members of a
single family) and support of $120,000 from the
T Community Chest, a public federated fundraising organization operating in T City. P depends on these funds to carry out its activities
and will continue to depend on contributions of
this type to be made in the future. P has also
begun a fundraising campaign in an attempt to
expand its activities for the coming years.
P is governed by a Board of Directors composed of five individuals. A faculty member of a
local college, the president of a local music society, the head of a local banking institution, a
prominent doctor, and a member of the governing body of the local Chamber of Commerce
currently serve on the Board and represent the
interests and views of the community in the activities carried on by P.
For P's current tax year, its sources of support are computed on the basis of the current
tax year and the 4 immediately preceding tax
years, as follows.
Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Receipts from performances . . . . . . . . . .
Less:
Receipts from performances (excluded,
see Support) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
T Community Chest (indirect support from
the general public) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Two contributions (each over $10,400—2%
of total support) 2 × $10,400 . . . . . . . . . . .
Total support from general public . . . . . . .

$520,000
100,000
$620,000
100,000
$520,000
$120,000
20,800
$140,800

P's support from the general public, directly and
indirectly, doesn't meet the one-third support
test ($140,800/$520,000 = 27% of total support). However, because P receives 27% of its
total support from the general public, it meets
the 10% support limitation under Regulations
section 1.170A-9(f)(3)(i). P also meets the requirements of Regulations section 1.170A-9(f)
(3)(ii). As a result of satisfying these requirements and factors, P is considered to meet the
facts and circumstances test and therefore
qualifies as a publicly supported organization
for its current tax year and the immediately succeeding tax year.

Example 4. In 1960, the P Philharmonic Orchestra was organized in T City by a local music
society and a local women's club to present to
the public a wide variety of musical programs intended to foster music appreciation in the

Example 5. Q is recognized as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) and it is a
philanthropic organization. Q was founded in
1965 by C for the purpose of making annual
contributions to worthy charities. C created Q as
a charitable trust by transferring $500,000 worth
of appreciated securities to Q.
Under the trust agreement, C and two other
family members are the sole trustees of Q and
are vested with the right to appoint successor
trustees. In each of the current tax year and the
4 tax years immediately preceding the current

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

tax year, Q received $12,000 in investment income from its original endowment. Each year Q
solicits funds by operating a charity ball at C's
residence. Guests are invited and asked to
make contributions of $100 per couple. During
the 5-year period involved, $15,000 was received from the proceeds of these events. C
and his family have also made contributions to
Q of $25,000 over the 5-year period at issue. Q
makes disbursements each year of substantially all of its net income to the public charities
chosen by the trustees.
Q's sources of support for the current tax
year and the 4 tax years immediately preceding
the current tax year are as follows:
Investment income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$60,000
$40,000

Total support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$100,000

Contributions from the general public . . . .

$15,000

One contribution (over $2,000—2% of total
support) 1 × $2,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total support from general public . . . . . . .

$17,000

2,000

Q's support from the general public doesn't
meet
the
one-third
support
test
($17,000/$100,000 = 17% of total support).
Even though it does meet the ten-percent-of-support requirement, its method of solicitation makes it questionable whether Q satisfies Regulations section 1.170A-9(f)(3)(ii).
Because of its method of operating, Q also has
a greater burden of establishing its publicly supported nature. Based on these facts and on Q's
failure to receive favorable consideration under
the remaining factors of Regulations section
1.170A-9(f)(3)(iii), Q doesn't satisfy the facts
and circumstances test and therefore doesn't
qualify as a publicly supported organization.

Community Trusts
Community trusts are often established to attract large contributions of a capital or endowment nature for the benefit of a particular community or area. Often these contributions come
initially from a small number of donors. While
the community trust generally has a governing
body composed of representatives of the particular community or area, its contributions are often received and maintained in the form of separate trusts or funds that are subject to varying
degrees of control by the governing body.
To qualify as a publicly supported organization, a community trust must meet the one-third
support test, explained earlier under Qualifying
as Publicly Supported. If it can't meet that test, it
must be organized and operated so as to attract
new and additional public or governmental support on a continuous basis sufficient to meet the
facts and circumstances test, also explained
earlier. Community trusts are generally able to
satisfy the attraction of public support requirement (as contained in the facts and circumstances test) if they seek gifts and bequests from a
wide range of potential donors in the community
or area served, through banks or trust companies, through attorneys or other professional
persons, or in other appropriate ways that call
attention to the community trust as a potential
recipient of gifts and bequests made for the
benefit of the community or area served. A
37

community trust, however, doesn't have to engage in periodic, community-wide, fundraising
campaigns directed toward attracting a large
number of small contributions in a manner similar to campaigns conducted by a community
chest or a united fund.
Separate trusts or funds. Any community
trust may be treated as a single entity for public
support purposes, rather than as an aggregation of separate funds, in which case all qualifying funds associated with that organization
(whether a trust, not-for-profit corporation, unincorporated association, or a combination
thereof) will be treated as component parts of
the organization for public support purposes.
Single entity. To be treated as a single entity for public support purposes, a community
trust must meet all of the following requirements.
1. The organization must be commonly
known as a community trust, fund, foundation, or other similar name conveying the
concept of a capital or endowment fund to
support charitable activities in the community or area it serves.
2. All funds of the organization must be subject to a common governing instrument (or
a master trust or agency agreement) that
may be embodied in a single (or several)
document(s) containing common language.
3. The organization must have a common
governing body (or distribution committee)
that either directs or, in the case of a fund
designated for specified beneficiaries,
monitors the distribution of all funds exclusively for charitable purposes. The governing body must have the power in the governing instrument, the instrument of
transfer, the resolutions or bylaws of the
governing body, a written agreement, or
otherwise—
a. To modify any restriction or condition
on the distribution of funds for any
specified charitable purposes or to
specified organizations if in the sole
judgment of the governing body (without the necessity of the approval of
any participating trustee, custodian, or
agent), the restriction or condition becomes, in effect, unnecessary, incapable of fulfillment, or inconsistent
with the charitable needs of the community or area served;
b. To replace any participating trustee,
custodian, or agent for breach of fiduciary duty under state law; and
c. To replace any participating trustee,
etc., for failure to produce a reasonable return of net income over a reasonable period of time. (The governing body will determine what is
reasonable.)
4. The organization must prepare periodic financial reports treating all of the funds that
are held by the community trust, either directly or in component parts, as funds of
the organization.
38

A community trust can meet the requirement
in (3) above even if its exercise of the powers in
(3)(a), (b), or (c) is reviewable by an appropriate
state authority.
Component part. To be treated as a component part of a community trust (rather than as
a separate trust or a not-for-profit corporation
for public support purposes), a trust or fund:
1. Must be created by gift, bequest, legacy,
devise, or other transfer to a community
trust that is treated as a single entity (described above), and
2. May not be directly or indirectly subjected
by the transferor to any material restriction
or condition with respect to the transferred
assets.
Grantors and contributors. Grantors, contributors, or distributors to a community trust may
rely on the public charity status, which the organization has claimed in a timely filed notice,
on or before the date the IRS informs the public
(through such means as publication in the Internal Revenue Bulletin) that such reliance has expired. However, if the grantor, contributor, or
distributor acquires knowledge that the IRS has
notified the community trust that it has failed to
establish that it is a public charity, then reliance
on the claimed status expires at the time such
knowledge is acquired.

Section 509(a)(2) Organizations
Section 509(a)(2) excludes certain types of
broadly based, publicly supported organizations
from private foundation status. Generally, an organization described in section 509(a)(2) may
also fit the description of a publicly supported
organization under section 509(a)(1). There are,
however, two basic differences.
1. For section 509(a)(2) organizations, the
term support includes items of support discussed earlier (under Support, in the discussion of Section 509(a)(1) Organizations) and income from activities directly
related to their exempt function. This income isn't included in meeting the support
test for a publicly supported organization
under section 509(a)(1).
2. Section 509(a)(2) places a limit on the total gross investment income and unrelated
business taxable income (in excess of the
unrelated business tax) an organization
may have, while section 509(a)(1) doesn't.
To be excluded from private foundation treatment under section 509(a)(2), an organization
must meet two support tests.
1. The one-third support test.
2. The not-more-than-one-third support test.
Both these tests are designed to ensure that
an organization excluded from private foundation treatment is responsive to the general public, rather than to the private interests of a limited number of donors or other persons.
One-third support test. The one-third support
test will be met if an organization normally receives more than one-third of its support in
each tax year from any combination of:
Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

1. Gifts, grants, contributions, or membership
fees; and
2. Gross receipts from admissions, sales of
merchandise, performance of services, or
furnishing facilities in an activity that isn't
an unrelated trade or business, subject to
certain limits, discussed under Limit on
gross receipts, later.
For this purpose, the support must be from
permitted sources, which include:
• Section 509(a)(1) organizations, described
earlier;
• Governmental units, described under Section 509(a)(1) Organizations, earlier; and
• Persons other than Disqualified persons
(defined under Section 509(a)(3) Organizations), later.
Limit on gross receipts. In computing the
amount of support received from gross receipts
under (2) above, gross receipts from related activities received from any person or from any bureau or similar agency of a governmental unit
are includible in any tax year only to the extent
the gross receipts aren't more than the greater
of $5,000 or 1% of the organization's total support in that year.
Not-more-than-one-third support test. This
test will be met if an organization normally receives no more than one-third of its support in
each tax year from the total of:
1. Gross investment income, and
2. The excess (if any) of unrelated business
taxable income from unrelated trades or
businesses acquired after June 30, 1975,
over the tax imposed on that income.
Gross investment income. Gross investment income means the gross amount of income from interest, dividends, payments with
respect to securities loans, rents, and royalties,
but it doesn't include any income that would be
included in computing tax on unrelated business income from trades or businesses.
Definition of normally. Both support tests
are computed on the basis of the nature of the
organization's normal sources of support. An organization will be considered to have normally
met both tests for its current tax year and the tax
year immediately following, if it meets those
tests on the basis of the total support received
for the current tax year and the 4 tax years immediately before the current tax year.
Computation period for public support. If at
the time of applying for tax-exempt status, an
organization can reasonably be expected to
meet the one-third support test and the
not-more-than-one-third support test during its
first 5 tax years, the organization will qualify for
classification as a public charity under section
509(a)(2) for its first 5 years. Beginning with the
organization's sixth tax year, the organization
will be described in section 509(a)(2) if it meets
the
one-third
support
test
and
not-more-than-one-third support test for its sixth
year (based on support received in its second
through sixth tax years) or as a carryover for its
fifth tax year (based on support received in its
first through fifth tax years). If the organization is
required to file Form 990 or 990-EZ, it must
Publication 557 (1-2025)

establish that it meets the one-third support test
and not-more-than-one-third support test each
year on Schedule A (Form 990).
Reasonable expectation of public support. An organization that can reasonably be
expected to meet the one-third support test and
not-more-than-one-third support test under section 509(a)(2) during its first 5 tax years is one
that can show that its organizational structure,
current or proposed programs and activities,
and actual or intended method of operation can
reasonably be expected to attract the type of
broadly based support from the general public,
public charities, and governmental units that is
necessary to meet these tests. The facts that
are relevant to this determination and the weight
accorded each fact may differ from case to
case. An organization can't reasonably be expected to meet the one-third support test and
the not-more-than-one-third support test when
the facts indicate that an organization is likely,
during its first 5 tax years, to receive less than
one-third of its support from permitted sources
or to receive more than one-third of its support
from gross investment income and unrelated
business taxable income.
All pertinent facts and circumstances are
taken into account in determining whether the
organizational structure, programs, or activities,
and method of operation of an organization will
give that organization a reasonable expectation
that it will meet the support tests. Some pertinent factors considered are:
1. Whether the organization has or will have
a governing body that is composed of persons having special knowledge in the particular field in which the organization is operating or of community leaders, such as
elected officials, members of the clergy,
and educators, or, in the case of a membership organization, of individuals elected
under the organization’s governing instrument or bylaws by a broadly based membership,
2. Whether a substantial part of the organization’s initial funding is to be provided by
the general public, by public charities, or
by government grants rather than by a limited number of grantors or contributors who
are disqualified persons with respect to
the organization,
3. Whether a substantial proportion of the organization’s initial funds are placed, or will
remain, in an endowment and whether the
investment of those funds is unlikely to result in more than one-third of its total support being received from gross investment
income and from unrelated business taxable income in excess of the tax imposed
on that income,
4. Whether an organization that carries on
fundraising activities has developed a specific plan for solicitation of funds on a community or area-wide basis,
5. Whether an organization that carries on
community service activities has a specific
program to carry out its work in the community,
6. Whether membership dues for individual
(rather than institutional) members of an
organization that carries on education or
Publication 557 (1-2025)

other exempt activities for or on behalf of
members have been fixed at rates designed to make membership available to a
broad cross section of the public rather
than to restrict membership to a limited
number of persons, and
7. Whether an organization that provides
goods, services, or facilities is or will be required to make its services, facilities, performances, or products available (regardless of whether a fee is charged) to the
general public, public charities, or governmental units rather than to a limited number of persons or organizations.
Unusual grants. An unusual grant can be excluded from the support test computation if it:
1. Was attracted by the publicly supported
nature of the organization,
2. Was unusual or unexpected in amount,
and
3. Would, because of its size, adversely affect the status of the organization as normally meeting the one-third support test.
(The organization must otherwise meet
the test in that year without benefit of the
grant or contribution.)
Characteristics of an unusual grant. A
grant or contribution will be considered an unusual grant if the above three factors apply and
it has all of the following characteristics. If these
factors and characteristics apply, then even
without the benefit of an advance ruling, grantors or contributors have assurance that they
won't be considered responsible for an act that
results in an organization's change of support
status. See Rev. Proc. 2018-32, 2018-23 I.R.B.
739.
1. The grant or contribution isn't made by a
person (or related person) who created
the organization or was a substantial contributor to the organization before the grant
or contribution.
2. The grant or contribution isn't made by a
person (or related person) who is in a position of authority, such as a foundation
manager, or who otherwise has the ability
to exercise control over the organization.
Similarly, the grant or contribution isn't
made by a person (or related person) who,
because of the grant or contribution, obtains a position of authority or the ability to
otherwise exercise control over the organization.
3. The grant or contribution is in the form of
cash, readily marketable securities, or assets that directly further the organization's
exempt purposes, such as a gift of a painting to a museum.
4. The donee organization has received either an advance ruling or final determination letter classifying it as a publicly supported organization and, except for an
organization operating under an advance
ruling or determination letter, the organization is actively engaged in a program of
activities in furtherance of its exempt purpose.

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

5. No material restrictions or conditions have
been imposed by the grantor or contributor
upon the organization in connection with
the grant or contribution.
6. If the grant or contribution is intended for
operating expenses, rather than capital
items, the terms and amount of the grant
or contribution are expressly limited to one
year's operating expenses.
Determination request. If there is any
doubt that a grant or contribution can be excluded as an unusual grant, the grantee organization can request a determination by submitting
Form 8940, Request for Miscellaneous Determination, supporting documents described in the
Instructions for Form 8940 and the appropriate
user fee. The IRS has the sole discretion of issuing a determination, but if a favorable determination is issued, it can be relied on by the
grantor or contributor for purposes of a charitable contributions deduction and by the organization for purposes of the exclusion for unusual
grants.
In addition to the characteristics listed
above, the following factors may be considered
by the IRS in determining if the grant or contribution is an unusual grant.
1. Whether the contribution was a bequest or
a transfer while living. A bequest will ordinarily be given more favorable consideration than a transfer while living.
2. Whether, before the contribution, the organization carried on an actual program of
public solicitation and exempt activities
and was able to attract a significant
amount of public support.
3. Whether the organization may reasonably
be expected to attract a significant amount
of public support after the contribution.
Continued reliance on unusual grants to
fund an organization's current operating
expenses can be evidence that the organization can't attract future support from the
general public.
4. Whether the organization met the
one-third support test in the past without
the benefit of any exclusions of unusual
grants.
5. Whether the organization has a representative governing body.
Example 1. Y, an organization described in
section 501(c)(3), was created by Marshall
Pine, the holder of all the common stock in M
corporation, Lisa, Marshall's wife, and Edward
Forest, Marshall's business associate. The purpose of Y was to sponsor and equip athletic
teams composed of underprivileged children in
the community. Each of the three creators
makes small cash contributions to Y. Marshall,
Lisa, and Edward have been active participants
in the affairs of Y since its creation. Y regularly
raises small amounts of contributions through
fundraising drives and selling admission to
some of the sponsored sporting events. The operations of Y are carried out on a small scale,
usually being restricted to the sponsorship of
two to four baseball teams of underprivileged
children.

39

In 2012, M Corporation recapitalizes and
creates a first and second class of 6% nonvoting preferred stock, most of which is held by
Marshall and Lisa. In 2013, Marshall contributes
49% of his common stock in M to Y. Marshall's
contribution of M's common stock was substantial and constitutes 90% of Y's total support for
2013. A combination of the facts and circumstances of the determining factors preclude
Marshall's contribution of M's common stock in
2013 from being excluded as an unusual grant
under
Temporary
Regulations
section
1.509(a)-3T(c)(3) for purposes of determining
whether Y meets the one-third support test under section 509(a)(2).
Example 2. M was organized in 2012 to
promote the appreciation of ballet in a particular
region of the United States. Its principal activities consist of erecting a theater for the performance of ballet and the organization and operation of a ballet company. M receives a
determination letter that it is an organization described in section 501(c)(3) and that it is a public charity described in section 509(a)(2). The
governing body of M consists of nine prominent
unrelated citizens residing in the region who
have either an expertise in ballet or a strong interest in encouraging appreciation of the art
form.
In 2013, Z, a private foundation, proposes to
make a grant of $500,000 in cash to M to provide sufficient capital for M to commence its activities. Although Albert Cedar, the creator of Z,
is one of the nine members of M's governing
body, was one of M's original founders, and
continues to lend his prestige to M's activities
and fundraising efforts, Albert doesn't, directly
or indirectly, exercise any control over M. By the
close of its first tax year, M also has received a
significant amount of support from a number of
smaller contributions and pledges from members of the general public. M charges admission
to the ballet performances to the general public.
Although the support received in 2013 won't
impact M's status as a public charity for its first
5 tax years, it will be relevant to the determination of whether M meets the one-third support
test under section 509(a)(2) for the 2017 tax
year, using the computation period 2013
through 2017. Within the appropriate timeframe,
M may submit a request for a determination letter that the $500,000 contribution from Z qualifies as an unusual grant.
Under the above circumstances, even
though Albert was a founder and member of the
governing body of M, M may exclude Z's contribution of $500,000 in 2013 as an unusual grant
under Regulations section 1.509(a)-3T(c)(3) for
purposes of determining whether M meets the
one-third support test under section 509(a)(2)
for 2017.
Gifts, contributions, and grants distinguished from gross receipts. In determining
whether an organization normally receives more
than one-third of its support from permitted
sources, include all gifts, contributions, and
grants received from permitted sources in the
numerator of the support fraction in each tax
year. However, gross receipts from admissions,
sales of merchandise, performance of services,
or furnishing facilities, in an activity that isn't an
unrelated trade or business, are includible in the
40

numerator of the support fraction in any tax year
only to the extent that the amounts received
from any person or from any bureau or similar
agency of a governmental unit aren't more than
the greater of $5,000 or 1% of support.
Determinations of public support status.
An organization may request a determination
letter that it is described in section 509(a)(2).
This request is made on Form 1023 or Form
1023-EZ, or at such other time as the organization believes it is described in section 509(a)(2).
The IRS may revoke the section 509(a)(2) determination letter if, upon examination, the organization has not met the requirements. The
IRS may also revoke the section 509(a)(2) determination letter if the organization’s application for determination contained an omission or
inaccurate material information.
Reliance by grantors or contributors.
Grantors or contributors may rely on a determination that an organization is described in section 509(a)(2) until notice of change of status of
the organization is made to the public (such as
by publication in the Internal Revenue Bulletin,
or Tax-Exempt Organization Search, either of
which can be searched at IRS.gov). See Rev.
Proc. 2018-32, 2018-23 I.R.B. 739. Tax-Exempt
Organization Search is only available online at
Tax-Exempt Organization Search. However, this
won't apply if the grantor or contributor was responsible for, or aware of, the act or failure to
act that resulted in the organization's loss of
classification as a publicly supported organization.
Gifts and contributions. Any payment of
money or transfer of property without adequate
consideration is considered a gift or contribution. When payment is made or property is
transferred as consideration for admissions,
sales of merchandise, performance of services,
or furnishing facilities to the donor, the status of
the payment or transfer under section 170(c)
determines whether and to what extent the payment or transfer is a gift or contribution as distinguished from gross receipts from related activities.
The amount includible in computing support
from gifts, grants, or contributions of property or
use of property is the fair market or rental value
of the property at the date of the gift or contribution.
Example. P is a local agricultural club and
is an organization described in section 501(c)
(3). It makes awards at its annual fair for outstanding specimens of produce and livestock to
encourage interest and proficiency by young
people in farming and raising livestock. Most of
these awards are cash or other property donated by local businessmen. When the awards are
made, the donors are given recognition for their
donations by being identified as the donor of
the award. The recognition given to donors is
merely incidental to the making of the award to
worthy youngsters. For these reasons, the donations are contributions. The amount includible
in computing support is equal to the cash contributed or the fair market value of other property on the dates contributed.

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

Grants. Grants often contain certain terms
and conditions imposed by the grantor. Because of the imposition of terms and conditions,
the frequent similarity of public purposes of
grantor and grantee, and the possibility of benefit to the grantor, amounts received as grants for
carrying on exempt activities are sometimes difficult to distinguish from amounts received as
gross receipts from carrying on exempt activities.
In distinguishing the term gross receipts
from the term grants, the term gross receipts
means amounts received from an activity that
isn't an unrelated trade or business, if a specific
service, facility, or product is provided to serve
the direct and immediate needs of the payor
rather than primarily to confer a direct benefit on
the general public. In general, payments made
primarily to enable the payor to realize or receive some economic or physical benefit as a
result of the service, facility, or product obtained
will be treated as gross receipts by the payee.
For example, a profit-making organization,
primarily for its own betterment, contracts with a
nonprofit organization for a service from that organization. Any payments received by the nonprofit organization (whether from the profit-making organization or from another nonprofit) for
similar services are primarily for the benefit of
the payor and are therefore gross receipts,
rather than grants.
Research leading to the development of tangible products for the use or benefit of a payor
generally will be treated as a service provided
to serve the direct and immediate needs of the
payor, while basic research or studies carried
on in the physical or social sciences generally
will be treated as primarily to confer a direct
benefit upon the general public.
Medicare and Medicaid payments are gross
receipts from the exercise or performance of an
exempt function. The individual patient, not a
governmental unit, actually controls the ultimate
recipient of these payments. Therefore, Medicare and Medicaid receipts for services provided to each patient are included as gross receipts to the extent they aren't more than the
greater of $5,000 or 1% of the organization's total support for the tax year.
Membership fees distinguished from gross
receipts. The fact that a membership organization provides services, admissions, facilities, or
merchandise to its members as part of its overall activities won't, in itself, result in the classification of fees received from members as gross
receipts subject to the $5,000 or 1% limit rather
than membership fees. However, if an organization uses membership fees as a means of selling admissions, merchandise, services, or the
use of facilities to members of the general public who have no common goal or interest (other
than the desire to buy the admissions, merchandise, services, or use of facilities), the fees
aren't membership fees but are gross receipts.
On the other hand, to the extent the basic
purpose of the payment is to provide support for
the organization rather than to buy admissions,
merchandise, services, or the use of facilities,
the payment is a membership fee.
Bureau defined. The term bureau or similar
agency of a governmental unit for determining
amounts subject to the $5,000 or 1% limit
Publication 557 (1-2025)

means a specialized operating unit of the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of government in which business is conducted under certain rules and regulations. Since the term
bureau refers to a unit functioning at the operating, as distinct from the policy-making, level of
government, it normally means a subdivision of
a department of government. The term wouldn't
usually include those levels of government that
are basically policy-making or administrative,
such as the office of the Secretary or Assistant
Secretary of a department, but would consist of
the highest operational level under the policy-making or administrative levels.
Amounts received from a unit functioning at
the policy-making or administrative level of government are treated as received from one bureau or similar agency of the unit. Units of a
governmental agency above the operating level
are combined and considered a separate bureau for this purpose. Thus, an organization that
has gross receipts from both a policy-making or
administrative unit and an operational unit of a
department will be treated as having gross receipts from two bureaus. For this purpose, the
Departments of Air Force, Army, and Navy are
separate departments and each has its own
policy-making, administrative, and operating
units.
Example 1. The Bureau for Africa and the
Bureau for Latin America are considered separate bureaus. Each is an operating unit under
the Administrator of the Agency for International
Development, a policy-making official. If an organization had gross receipts from both of
these bureaus, the amount of gross receipts
from each would be subject to the greater of
$5,000 or the 1% limit.
Example 2. A bureau is an operating unit
under the administrative office of the Executive
Director. The subdivisions of the bureau are
Geographic Areas and Project Development
Staff. If an organization had gross receipts from
these subdivisions, the total gross receipts from
these subdivisions would be considered gross
receipts from the same bureau and would be
subject to the greater of $5,000 or the 1% limit.
Grants from public charities. For purposes
of the one-third support test, grants received
from a section 509(a)(1) organization (public
charity) are generally includible in full in computing the numerator of the support fraction for
that tax year.
However, if the amount received is considered an indirect contribution from one of the
public charity's donors, it will retain its character
as a contribution from the donor, and if, for example, the donor is a substantial contributor to
the ultimate recipient, the amount is excluded
from the numerator of the support fraction. If a
public charity makes both an indirect contribution from its donor and an additional grant to the
ultimate recipient, the indirect contribution is
treated as made first.
An indirect contribution is one that is expressly or impliedly earmarked by the donor as
being for, or for the benefit of, a particular recipient rather than for a particular purpose.
Method of accounting. An organization's support is determined under the same accounting
Publication 557 (1-2025)

method that it uses in keeping its books and
that it otherwise uses to report on its Form 990
or 990-EZ, if it is required to file Form 990 or
990-EZ. For example, if a grantor makes a grant
to an organization payable over a term of years,
the grant will be includible in the support fraction of the grantee organization under the accounting method it regularly uses in keeping its
books.
Gross receipts from a related activity. When
the charitable purpose of an organization described in section 501(c)(3) is accomplished
through furnishing facilities for a rental fee or
loans to a particular class of persons, such as
aged, sick, or needy persons, the support received from those persons will be considered
gross receipts from a related exempt activity
rather than gross investment income or unrelated business taxable income.
However, if the organization also furnishes
facilities or loans to persons who aren't members of a particular class and furnishing the facilities or funds doesn't contribute importantly to
accomplishing the organization's exempt purposes, the support received from furnishing the facilities or funds will be considered rents or interest and will be treated as gross investment
income or unrelated business taxable income.
Example. X, an organization described in
section 501(c)(3), is organized and operated to
provide living facilities for needy widows of deceased servicemen. X charges the widows a
small rental fee for the use of the facilities. Since
X is accomplishing its exempt purpose through
the rental of the facilities, the support received
from the widows is considered gross receipts
from a related exempt activity. However, if X
rents part of its facilities to persons having no
relationship to X's exempt purpose, the support
received from these rentals will be considered
gross investment income or unrelated business
taxable income.

Section 509(a)(3) Organizations
Section 509(a)(3) excludes from the definition
of private foundation those organizations that
meet all of the three following requirements.
1. The organization must be organized and
operated exclusively for the benefit of, to
perform the functions of, or to carry out the
purposes of one or more specified organizations, as described in sections 509(a)(1)
or 509(a)(2). These section 509(a)(1) and
509(a)(2) organizations are commonly
called publicly supported organizations.
2. The organization has one of three types of
relationships with one or more organizations described in sections 509(a)(1) or
509(a)(2). It must be:
a. Operated, supervised, or controlled
by one or more section 509(a)(1) or
509(a)(2) organizations (Type I supporting organization),
b. Supervised or controlled in connection with one or more section 509(a)
(1) or 509(a)(2) organizations (Type II
supporting organization), or

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

c. Operated in connection with one or
more section 509(a)(1) or 509(a)(2)
organizations (Type III supporting organization).
3. The organization mustn't be controlled directly or indirectly by disqualified persons
(defined later) other than foundation managers and other than one or more organizations described in section 509(a)(1) or
509(a)(2).
Section 509(a)(3) differs from the other provisions of section 509 that describe a publicly
supported organization. Instead of describing
an organization that conducts a particular kind
of activity or that receives financial support from
the general public, section 509(a)(3) describes
organizations that have established certain relationships in support of section 509(a)(1) or
509(a)(2) organizations. Thus, an organization
can qualify as other than a private foundation
even though it may be funded by a single donor,
family, or corporation (with certain exceptions
described in Organizations controlled by donors, later). This kind of funding ordinarily would
indicate private foundation status, but a section
509(a)(3) organization has limited purposes and
activities and gives up a significant degree of independence.
More than one type of relationship may exist
between a supporting organization and a publicly supported organization. Any relationship,
however, must ensure that the supporting organization will be responsive to the needs or
demands of, and will be an integral part of or
maintain a significant involvement in, the operations of one or more publicly supported organizations.
The Type I and Type II relationships rely on
majority control of the governing body of the
supporting organization by the publicly supported organization. They have the same rules for
meeting the tests under requirement (1) and are
discussed in Category one below. The operated
in connection with relationship requires that the
supporting organization be responsive to and
have operational relationships with publicly supported organizations. This third relationship has
different rules for meeting the requirement (1)
tests and is discussed separately in Category
two, later.
Supported organizations. Supported organizations are organizations described in section
509(a)(1) or 509(a)(2) for whose benefit the
supporting organization is organized and operated. A section 501(c)(4), (c)(5), or (c)(6) organization that would be described in section
509(a)(2) if it were a 501(c)(3) organization may
be treated as a 509(a)(2) organization for purposes of these rules, and therefore may be a
supported organization as well, subject to certain restrictions. See Supporting other than section 501(c)(3) organizations, later.
Organizations controlled by donors. Generally, if a Type I or Type III supporting organization supports an organization that is controlled
by a donor, the supporting organization is treated as a private foundation (rather than as a
public charity). Type I and Type III organizations
may not accept any gifts or contributions from:
41

1. Any person (other than an organization
described in section 509(a)(1), (2), or (4))
who controls, directly or indirectly, either
alone or together with persons listed in (2)
or (3) below, the governing body of a supported organization;
2. A family member of a person described in
(1), above; or
3. A 35% controlled entity.
Category one - Type I and Type II supporting organizations. This category includes organizations either operated, supervised, or controlled by (Type I) or supervised or controlled in
connection with (Type II) organizations described in section 509(a)(1) or 509(a)(2) (which can
be either domestic or foreign).
These kinds of organizations have a governing body that either includes a majority of members elected or appointed by one or more publicly supported organizations (Type I) or that
consists of the same persons that control or
manage the publicly supported organizations
(Type II). If an organization is to qualify under
this category, it must also meet an organizational test and an operational test, and mustn't
be controlled by disqualified persons. These requirements are covered later in this discussion.
Type I - Operated, supervised, or controlled by. The Type I relationship presupposes a substantial degree of direction over the
policies, programs, and activities of a supporting organization by its supported organizations.
The relationship required is comparable to that
of a parent and subsidiary, in which the subsidiary is under the direction of, and is accountable
or responsible to, the parent organization. This
relationship is typically established when the
supported organization(s) may regularly appoint
or elect a majority of the directors or trustees of
the supporting organization.
Type II - Supervised or controlled in connection with. An organization that is supervised or controlled in connection with one or
more section 509(a)(1) or 509(a)(2) organizations is a Type II supporting organization. The
control or management of the supporting organization must be vested in the same persons that
control or manage the publicly supported organization. In order for an organization to be supervised or controlled in connection with a supported organization, common supervision or
control by the persons supervising or controlling
both organizations must exist to ensure that the
supporting organization will be responsive to
the needs and requirements of the supported
organization. This relationship is typically established when a majority of the directors or trustees of the supporting organization also serve as
directors or trustees of one or more supported
organizations.
Organizational and operational tests. Like
all supporting organizations, Type I and II supporting organizations must be both organized
and operated exclusively for the purposes set
out in requirement (1) at the beginning of this
section. If an organization fails to meet either
the organizational or the operational test, it can't
qualify as a supporting organization.

42

Organizational test. An organization is organized exclusively for one or more of the purposes specified in requirement (1) only if its articles of organization:
1. Limit the purposes of the organization to
one or more of those purposes,
2. Don’t expressly empower the organization
to engage in activities that aren't in furtherance of those purposes,
3. Specify (as explained later under Specified organizations) the publicly supported
organizations on whose behalf the organization is operated, and
4. Don’t expressly empower the organization
to operate to support or benefit any organization other than the ones specified in
item (3).
In meeting the organizational test, the organization's purposes as stated in its articles can
be as broad as, or more specific than, the purposes set forth in requirement (1) at the beginning of the discussion of Section 509(a)(3) Organizations. Therefore, an organization that by
the terms of its articles is formed for the benefit
of one or more specified publicly supported organizations will, if it otherwise meets the other
requirements, be considered to have met the organizational test.
For example, articles stating that an organization is formed to perform the publishing functions of a specified university are enough to
comply with the organizational test. A Type I or
Type II supporting organization meets these requirements if the purposes set forth in its articles are similar to but no broader than the purposes set forth in the articles of its controlling
organizations. However, a Type I or Type II supporting organization that supports a publicly
supported section 501(c)(4), 501(c)(5), or
501(c)(6) organization (see Supporting other
than section 501(c)(3) organizations, later)
meets these requirements if its articles require it
to carry on charitable, etc., activities within the
meaning of section 170(c)(2).
Limits. An organization isn't organized exclusively for the purposes specified in requirement (1) if its articles expressly permit it to operate to support or to benefit any organization
other than the specified publicly supported organizations. It won't meet the organizational test
even though the actual operations of the organization have been exclusively for the benefit of
the specified publicly supported organizations.
Specified organizations. All supporting
organizations must ensure that their supported
organizations are specified in their articles.
However, Type I and Type II supporting organizations have greater flexibility regarding how
their supported organizations may be “specified.”
Type I and Type II supporting organizations
may specify their supported organizations:
1. By name,
2. By class or purpose designated in a manner sufficient to identify the supported organizations, or

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

3. By demonstrating that the supporting organization and its supported organization(s) have a historic and continuing relationship, because of which a substantial
identity of interests has developed between or among the organizations.
The articles of a Type I or Type II supporting organization may also:
1. Permit the substitution of one publicly supported organization within a designated
class for another publicly supported organization either in the same or a different
class designated in the articles,
2. Permit the supporting organization to operate for the benefit of new or additional publicly supported organizations of the same
or a different class designated in the articles, or
3. Permit the supporting organization to vary
the amount of its support among different
publicly supported organizations within the
class or classes of organizations designated by the articles.
See also the rules considered under the Organizational test, in the later discussion for organizations in Category two - Type III supporting organizations..
Operational test — permissible beneficiaries. A supporting organization must engage solely in activities that support or benefit
its specified supported organizations. These activities may include making payments to or for
the use of, or providing services or facilities for,
individual members of the charitable class
benefited by its supported organization(s).
For example, a supporting organization may
make a payment indirectly through another unrelated organization to a member of a charitable
class benefited by a specified publicly supported organization, but only if the payment is a
grant to an individual rather than a grant to an
organization. Similarly, a supporting organization may support or benefit a section 501(c)(3)
organization, other than a private foundation,
that is operated, supervised, or controlled directly by or in connection with its supported organization(s). However, a supporting organization's activities may not further its purpose other
than supporting or benefiting its supported organization(s).
Operational test — permissible activities. A supporting organization may make payments to its supported organization(s) or to permissible beneficiaries, or may carry on
independent activities or programs that support
or benefit its supported organization(s). All such
support, however, must be limited to permissible beneficiaries described earlier. The supporting organization may also engage in fundraising
activities, such as solicitations, fundraising dinners, and unrelated trade or business, to raise
funds for its supported organization(s) or for the
permissible beneficiaries.
Absence of control by disqualified persons.
The third requirement an organization must
meet to qualify as a supporting organization requires that the organization not be controlled directly or indirectly by one or more disqualified

Publication 557 (1-2025)

persons (other than foundation managers or
one or more publicly supported organizations).
Disqualified persons. For the purposes of
the rules discussed in this publication, the following persons are considered disqualified persons:
1. All substantial contributors to the foundation.
2. All foundation managers of the foundation.
3. An owner of more than 20% of:
a. The total combined voting power of a
corporation that is (during such ownership) a substantial contributor to the
foundation,
b. The profits interest of a partnership
that is (during such ownership) a substantial contributor to the foundation,
or
c. The beneficial interest of a trust or unincorporated enterprise that is (during
such ownership) a substantial contributor to the foundation.
4. A member of the family of any of the individuals just listed.
5. A corporation of which more than 35% of
the total combined voting power is owned
by persons just listed.
6. A partnership of which more than 35% of
the profits interest is owned by persons
described in (1), (2), (3), or (4).
7. A trust, or estate, of which more than 35%
of the beneficial interest is owned by persons described in (1), (2), (3), or (4).
Remember, however, that foundation managers and publicly supported organizations
aren't disqualified persons for purposes of this
control requirement.
If a person who is a disqualified person with
respect to a supporting organization, such as a
substantial contributor, is appointed or designated as a foundation manager of the supporting
organization by a supported organization to
serve as its representative, that person is still a
disqualified person.
An organization is considered controlled for
this purpose if the disqualified persons, by combining their votes or positions of authority, can
require the organization to perform any act that
significantly affects its operations or can prevent
the organization from performing the act. This
includes, but isn't limited to, the right of any substantial contributor or spouse to designate annually the recipients from among the supported
organizations of the income from the contribution. Except as explained under Proof of independent control, next, a supporting organization
will be considered to be controlled directly or indirectly by one or more disqualified persons if
the voting power of those persons is 50% or
more of the total voting power of the organization's governing body, or if one or more of those
persons has the right to exercise veto power
over the actions of the organization.
Thus, if the governing body of a foundation
is composed of five trustees, none of whom has
a veto power over the actions of the foundation,
and no more than two trustees are at any time
disqualified persons, the foundation isn't
Publication 557 (1-2025)

considered controlled directly or indirectly by
one or more disqualified persons by reason of
this fact alone. However, all pertinent facts and
circumstances (including the nature, diversity,
and income yield of an organization's holdings,
the length of time particular stocks, securities,
or other assets are retained, and its manner of
exercising its voting rights with respect to stocks
in which members of its governing body also
have some interest) are considered in determining whether a disqualified person does in fact
indirectly control an organization.
Proof of independent control. An organization is permitted to establish to the satisfaction of the IRS that disqualified persons don't directly or indirectly control it. For example, in the
case of a religious organization operated in connection with a church, the fact that the majority
of the organization's governing body is composed of lay persons who are substantial contributors to the organization won't disqualify the
organization under section 509(a)(3) if a representative of the church, such as a bishop or
other official, has control over the policies and
decisions of the organization.
Category two - Type III supporting organizations. This category includes organizations operated in connection with one or more organizations described in section 509(a)(1) or 509(a)
(2).
All supporting organizations must be responsive to the needs and demands of, and
must constitute an integral part of or maintain
significant involvement in, their supported organizations. Type I and Type II supporting organizations are deemed to accomplish these
responsiveness and integral part requirements
by virtue of the control relationships discussed
earlier. However, a Type III supporting organization isn't subject to the same level of control by
its supported organization(s). Therefore, Type III
supporting organizations must pass separate
responsiveness and integral part tests, in addition to the organizational and operational tests
applicable to all supporting organizations. Type
III supporting organizations mustn't be controlled by disqualified persons (as described earlier), and may not receive contributions from
certain controlling donors (see Contributions
from controlling donors, later). In addition, a
Type III supporting organization may not support any organization not organized in the United States.
Functional integration. A Type III supporting organization may be “functionally-integrated” or “non-functionally integrated” depending
on the manner in which it meets the integral part
test (see Integral part test - functionally-integrated, and Integral part test - non-functionally integrated, later). Type III functionally-integrated
supporting organizations are subject to fewer
restrictions and requirements than Type III
non-functionally integrated supporting organizations. In particular, distributions from private
foundations to Type III non-functionally integrated supporting organizations aren't qualifying
distributions for purposes of satisfying a private
foundation's required annual distributions under
section 4942, and may be taxable expenditures
under section 4945.

Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

Organizational test. The organizational
test for a Type III supporting organization is generally the same as for a Type I or Type II supporting organization (described earlier). However, Type III supporting organizations are more
limited regarding how their supported organizations must be “specified” in their articles. A Type
III supporting organization's articles must specify its supported organization(s) by name, or the
organization must demonstrate that the supporting organization and its supported organization(s) have a historic and continuing relationship, because of which a substantial identity of
interests has developed between or among the
organizations. “Class or purpose” designations
don't satisfy the organizational test for Type III
supporting organizations. However, a Type III
supporting organization's articles may:
1. Permit a publicly supported organization
that is designated by class or purpose
rather than by name to be substituted for
the publicly supported organization or organizations designated by name in the articles, but only if the substitution is conditioned upon the occurrence of an event
that is beyond the control of the supporting
organization, such as loss of exemption,
substantial failure or abandonment of operations, or dissolution of the organization
or organizations designated in the articles,
2. Permit the supporting organization to operate for the benefit of an organization that
isn't a publicly supported organization, but
only if the supporting organization is currently operating for the benefit of a publicly
supported organization and the possibility
of its operating for the benefit of other than
a publicly supported organization is remote, or
3. Permit the supporting organization to vary
the amount of its support between different designated organizations, as long as it
meets the requirements of the integral-part
test (discussed later) with respect to at
least one beneficiary organization.
If the remote possibility referred to in (2)
comes to pass and the supporting organization
thereafter operates for the benefit of an organization that isn't a publicly supported organization, it will no longer qualify under section
509(a)(3).
Operational test. The operational rules described earlier for Type I and Type II supporting organizations apply as well to Type III supporting
organizations (see Operational test - permissible beneficiaries, and Operational test - permissible activities, earlier). In addition, a Type III
supporting organization must operate in a manner consistent with the requirements of the responsiveness test and the integral-part test, discussed later
Responsiveness test. A Type III supporting
organization must be responsive to the needs
or demands of its supported organization(s). To
meet this test, the supported organizations
must (1) elect one or more officers, directors, or
trustees; (2) have one or more officers, directors, or trustees of the supported organization(s) serving simultaneously as officers, directors, or trustees of the supporting organization;
43

or (3) maintain a close and continuous working
relationship with the officers, directors, or trustees of the supporting organization. In addition,
as a result of this representation or close working relationship, the supported organization(s)
must have a significant voice in the investment
policies of the supporting organization, the timing of grants and the manner of making them,
the selection of recipients, and generally the
use of the income or assets of the supporting
organization.

Attentiveness requirement. Each year, a
Type III non-functionally integrated supporting
organization must distribute one-third or more of
the amount that it must distribute that year to
one or more supported organizations that are
attentive to the operations of the supporting organization and to which the supporting organization is responsive. A supported organization
is “attentive” for these purposes if the amount
received by the supported organization from the
supporting organization:

Notification requirement. In each tax
year, the Type III supporting organization must
notify each supported organization of its support and provide a copy of the supporting organization's most recently filed Form 990 or
990-EZ and copies of any amendments to its
articles, bylaws, or other governing documents.

1. Equals at least 10% of the supported organization's total support for the year in
question;

Integral part test - functionally integrated. A Type III supporting organization may satisfy the integral part test as functionally-integrated in one of three ways:
1. Engaging in activities substantially all of
which directly further the exempt purposes
of its supported organization(s) and which,
but for the supporting organization's involvement, the supported organization
would normally engage in;
2. Being the parent of, appointing a majority
of the directors or trustees of, and exercising a substantial degree of direction over
the policies, programs, and activities of its
supported organizations; or
3. Supporting a governmental entity.
Direct furtherance activities. For purposes of the test in item (1), activities “directly further” a supported organization's exempt purposes only if conducted by the supporting
organization itself. Direct furtherance activities
include holding title to and managing exempt-use assets, but not fundraising or investing and managing non-exempt-use assets.
Grantmaking may qualify as direct furtherance
activities if the requirements of Regulations section 1.509(a)-4(i)(4)(ii)(D) are met.
Integral-part test - non-functionally integrated. A Type III supporting organization that
doesn't satisfy the integral part test as functionally-integrated will still qualify as a Type III
non-functionally integrated supporting organization if it satisfies a distribution requirement and
an attentiveness requirement. Alternatively, certain trusts established before November 20,
1970 may qualify if they meet the requirements
of Regulations section 1.509(a)-4(i)(5)(i)(9).
Distribution requirement. A Type III
non-functionally integrated supporting organization must distribute a certain amount annually to
or for the benefit of its supported organization(s). That amount is equal to the greater of
85% of the organization's adjusted net income
and 3.5% of the fair market value of the organization's non-exempt-use assets (with certain
adjustments).
See
Regulations
section
1.509(a)-4(i)(5) and (8) for more information regarding the distribution requirement and valuation of non-exempt-use assets. See Regulations
section 1.509(a)-4(i)(6) for more information regarding what distributions or expenditures count
towards the distribution requirement.
44

2. was necessary to avoid interruption of a
particular function or activity of the supported organization; or
3. was, based on all facts and circumstances
(including evidence of actual attentiveness), a sufficient part of the supported organization's total support to ensure attentiveness.
Supporting other than section 501(c)(3) organizations. An organization operated in conjunction with a social welfare organization, labor
or agricultural organization, business league,
chamber of commerce, or other organization
described in section 501(c)(4), 501(c)(5), or
501(c)(6) may qualify as a supporting organization under section 509(a)(3) and therefore not
be classified as a private foundation if both the
following conditions are met.
1. The supporting organization meets all the
requirements previously specified (the organizational tests, the operational test,
and one of the relationship tests and not
be controlled by disqualified persons).
2. The section 501(c)(4), 501(c)(5), or 501(c)
(6) organization would be described in
section 509(a)(2) if it was a charitable organization described in section 501(c)(3).
This provision allows separate charitable
funds of certain noncharitable organizations to be described in section 509(a)(3)
if the noncharitable organizations receive
their support and otherwise operate in the
manner specified by section 509(a)(2).
Special rules of attribution. To determine
whether
an
organization
meets
the
not-more-than-one-third support test in section
509(a)(2), amounts received by the organization
from an organization that seeks to be a section
509(a)(3) organization because of its support of
the organization are deemed gross investment
income (rather than gifts or contributions) to the
extent they are gross investment income of the
distributing organization. (This rule also applies
to amounts received from a charitable trust, corporation, fund, association, or similar organization that is required by its governing instrument
or otherwise to distribute, or that normally does
distribute, at least 25% of its adjusted net income to the organization, and whose distribution normally comprises at least 5% of its adjusted net income.) All income that is gross
investment income of the distributing organization will be considered distributed first by that
organization. If the supporting organization
makes distributions to more than one organization, the amount of gross investment income
Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

considered distributed will be prorated among
the distributees.
Also, treat amounts paid by an organization
to provide goods, services, or facilities for the
direct benefit of an organization seeking section
509(a)(2) status (rather than for the direct benefit of the general public) in the same manner as
amounts received by the latter organization.
These amounts will be treated as gross investment income to the extent they are gross investment income of the organization spending the
amounts. An organization seeking section
509(a)(2) status must file a separate statement
with its annual information return, Form 990 or
990-EZ, listing all amounts received from supporting organizations.
Relationships created for avoidance purposes. If a relationship between an organization
seeking section 509(a)(3) status and an organization seeking section 509(a)(2) status is established or used to avoid classification as a private foundation with respect to either
organization, then the character and amount of
support received by the section 509(a)(3) organization will be attributed to the section
509(a)(2) organization for purposes of determining whether the latter meets the support
tests under section 509(a)(2). If this type of relationship is established or used between an organization seeking 509(a)(3) status and two or
more organizations seeking 509(a)(2) status,
the amount and character of support received
by the former organization will be prorated
among the latter organizations.
In determining whether a relationship exists
between an organization seeking 509(a)(3) status (supporting organization) and one or more
organizations seeking 509(a)(2) status (beneficiary organizations) for the purpose of avoiding
private foundation status, all pertinent facts and
circumstances will be taken into account. The
following facts may be used as evidence that
such a relationship wasn't established or
availed of to avoid classification as a private
foundation.
1. The supporting organization is operated to
support or benefit several specified beneficiary organizations.
2. The beneficiary organization has a substantial number of dues-paying members
who have an effective voice in the management of both the supporting and the
beneficiary organizations.
3. The beneficiary organization is composed
of several membership organizations,
each of which has a substantial number of
members, and the membership organizations have an effective voice in the management of the supporting and beneficiary
organizations.
4. The beneficiary organization receives a
substantial amount of support from the
general public, public charities, or governmental grants.
5. The supporting organization uses its funds
to carry on a meaningful program of activities to support or benefit the beneficiary
organization and, if the supporting organization were a private foundation, this use

Publication 557 (1-2025)

would be sufficient to avoid the imposition
of the tax on failure to distribute income.
6. The operations of the beneficiary and supporting organizations are managed by different persons, and each organization performs a different function.
7. The supporting organization isn't able to
exercise substantial control or influence
over the beneficiary organization because
the beneficiary organization receives support or holds assets that are disproportionately large in comparison with the support
received or assets held by the supporting
organization.
Effect on section 509(a)(3) organizations. If
a beneficiary organization fails to meet either of
the support tests of section 509(a)(2) due to
these provisions, and the beneficiary organization is one for whose support the organization
seeking section 509(a)(3) status is operated,
then the supporting organization won't be considered to be operated exclusively to support or
benefit one or more section 509(a)(1) or 509(a)
(2) organizations and therefore wouldn't qualify
for section 509(a)(3) status.
Request change in public charity classification. A section 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization seeking to change its public charity classification from a section 509(a)(3) supporting
organization to a section 509(a)(1) or 509(a)(2)
organization must file Form 8940, Request for
Miscellaneous Determination. See the Instructions for Form 8940 for more information regarding supporting material and applicable user
fees.
For more information about applying for section 501(c)(3) status see Life Cycle of a Private
Foundation at IRS.gov.
Classification under section 509(a). If an organization is described in section 509(a)(1),
and is also described in either Section 509(a)(2)
or Section 509(a)(3), it will be treated as a section 509(a)(1) organization. The organization
should file Form 8940, Request for Miscellaneous Determination, if it wishes to receive a letter
showing a change in classification.
Reliance by grantors and contributors.
Once an organization has received a ruling or
determination letter classifying it as an organization described in Section 509(a)(1), Section
509(a)(2), or Section 509(a)(3), the treatment of
grants and contributions and the status of grantors and contributors to the organization will
generally not be affected by reason of a later
revocation by the IRS of the organization's classification until the date on which notice of
change of status is made to the public (generally by publication in the Internal Revenue Bulletin) or another applicable date, if any, specified
in the public notice. In appropriate cases, however, the treatment of grants and contributions
and the status of grantors and contributors to an
organization described in Section 509(a)(1),
Section 509(a)(2), or Section 509(a)(3) may be
affected pending verification of the continued
classification of the organization. Notice to this
effect will be made in a public announcement by
the IRS. In these cases, the effect of grants and
Publication 557 (1-2025)

contributions made after the date of the announcement will depend on the statutory qualification of the organization as an organization described in Section 509(a)(1), Section 509(a)(2),
or Section 509(a)(3).

foundations generally accomplish their charitable purpose by making grants to other charities.
Operating foundations make qualifying distributions directly for the active conduct of their educational, charitable, and religious purposes.

The preceding paragraph shall not apply if the grantor or contributor:

Most of the restrictions and requirements
that apply to private foundations also apply to
private operating foundations. However, there
are advantages to being classified as a private
operating foundation. For example, a private operating foundation (as compared to a private
foundation) can be the recipient of grants from a
private foundation without having to distribute
the funds received currently within 1 year, and
the funds nevertheless may be treated as qualifying distributions by the donating private foundation; charitable contributions to a private operating foundation qualify for a higher charitable
deduction limit on the donor's tax return; and
the excise tax on net investment income doesn't
apply to an exempt operating foundation (a private operating foundation that meets certain additional requirements - see Exempt operating
foundations, later).

!

CAUTION

1. Had knowledge of the revocation of the
ruling or determination letter classifying
the organization as an organization described in section 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2), or
509(a)(3); or
2. Was in part responsible for, or was aware
of, the act, the failure to act, or the substantial and material change on the part of
the organization that gave rise to the revocation.
Interim guidance for supporting organizations and grantors. Notice 2014-4 provides
further interim guidance for section 509(a)(3)
supporting organizations and their grantors
about the application of certain requirements
enacted as part of the Pension Protection Act of
2006. The notice provides transitional rules for
Type III supporting organizations that want to
qualify as “functionally integrated” because they
support governmental entities. The notice also
provides additional interim guidance for private
foundations and sponsoring organizations that
maintain donor-advised funds on the procedures to be followed in determining whether a
potential grantee is a Type I, Type II or functionally integrated Type III supporting organization.
See Notice 2014–4, 2014-2 I.R.B. 274 (extended as described in the preamble to the 2015 final regulations regarding the distribution requirement for non-functionally integrated Type
III supporting organizations (T.D. 9746)).

Section 509(a)(4) Organizations
Section 509(a)(4) excludes from classification
as private foundations those organizations that
qualify under section 501(c)(3) as organized
and operated for the purpose of testing products for public safety. Generally, these organizations test consumer products to determine their
acceptability for use by the general public.

Loss of Qualification as Public
Charity
If your organization ceases to qualify as a public
charity under section 509(a)(1)-(4), it becomes
a private foundation. The organization must file
Form 990-PF, Return of Private Foundation or
Section 4947(a)(1) Trust Treated as a Private
Foundation to satisfy its filing obligation. The organization can no longer file Form 990, 990-EZ,
or 990-N. A private foundation retains that status unless or until it terminates its private foundation status under section 507.

Private Operating
Foundations
Private foundations are divided into two categories - nonoperating private foundations and
private operating foundations. Nonoperating
Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

A private operating foundation is any private
foundation that meets the assets test, the support test, or the endowment test, and makes
qualifying distributions directly, for the active
conduct of its activities for which it was organized, of substantially all (85% or more) of the
lesser of its:
1. Adjusted net income, or
2. Minimum investment return.
Assets test. A private foundation will meet
the assets test if substantially more than half
(65% or more) of its assets are:
1. Devoted directly to the active conduct of
its exempt activity, to a functionally related
business, or to a combination of the two;
2. Stock of a corporation that is controlled by
the foundation (by ownership of at least
80% of the total voting power of all classes
of stock entitled to vote and at least 80%
of the total shares of all other classes of
stock) and substantially all (at least 85%)
the assets of which are devoted as provided above; or
3. Any combination of (1) and (2).
This test is intended to apply to organizations
such as museums and libraries.
Support test. A private foundation will
meet the support test if:
1. Substantially all (at least 85%) of its support (other than gross investment income)
is normally received from the general public and five or more unrelated exempt organizations,
2. Not more than 25% of its support (other
than gross investment income) is normally
received from any one exempt organization, and
3. Not more than 50% of its support is normally received from gross investment income.
This test is intended to apply to special-purpose
foundations, such as learned societies and associations of libraries.
45

Endowment test. A foundation will meet
the endowment test if it normally makes qualifying distributions directly for the active conduct
of its exempt function of at least two-thirds of its
minimum investment return.
The minimum investment return for any private foundation for any tax year is 5% of the excess of the total fair market value of all assets of
the foundation (other than those used directly in
the active conduct of its exempt purpose) over
the amount of indebtedness incurred to acquire
those assets.
In determining whether the amount of qualifying distributions is at least two-thirds of the organization's minimum investment return, the organization isn't required to trace the source of
the expenditures to determine whether they
were derived from investment income or from
contributions.
This test is intended to apply to organizations such as research organizations that actively conduct charitable activities but whose
personal services are so great in relationship to
charitable assets that the cost of those services
can't be met out of small endowments.

integrated auxiliary of a church or of a convention or association of churches, or a member of
an affiliated group of organizations that includes
a church, etc.) may elect instead an expenditure
test under section 501(h) as an alternative to
measure its lobbying activity. Under the Section
501(h) test, the lobbying limit is defined in terms
of expenditures for influencing legislation instead of whether lobbying is a substantial part
of the organization's activities. Private foundations can't make this election.

Exempt operating foundations. The excise tax on net investment income doesn't apply
to an exempt operating foundation. An exempt
operating foundation for the tax year is any private foundation that:

Attempting to influence legislation. Attempting to influence legislation, for this purpose,
means:

1. Is an operating foundation, as described
previously;
2. Has been publicly supported for at least
10 tax years or was an operating foundation on January 1, 1983, or for its last tax
year ending before January 1, 1983;
3. Has a governing body that, at all times
during the tax year, is broadly representative of the general public and consists of
individuals no more than 25% of whom are
disqualified individuals; and
4. Doesn't have any officer, at any time during the tax year, who is a disqualified individual.
The foundation must obtain a determination letter from the IRS recognizing this special status
(see Existing organization, later).
New organization. If you are applying for
recognition of exemption as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) and you wish to establish that your organization is a private operating foundation, you should complete Part VII of
your exemption application (Form 1023).
Existing organization. If you are an existing
organization seeking reclassification as a private operating foundation or as an exempt operating foundation, you must file Form 8940, Request for Miscellaneous Determination.

Lobbying Expenditures
In general, if a substantial part of the activities
of your organization consists of carrying on
propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation, your organization will not qualify for exemption under section 501(c)(3). However, a public charity (other than a church, an
46

Making the election. Use Form 5768, Election/Revocation of Election by an Eligible Section 501(c)(3) Organization To Make Expenditures To Influence Legislation, to make the
election. The form must be signed and postmarked within the first tax year to which it applies. If the form is used to revoke the election, it
must be signed and postmarked before the first
day of the tax year to which it applies.
Eligible section 501(c)(3) organizations that
have made the election to be subject to the limits on lobbying expenditures must use Part II-A
of Schedule C (Form 990) to figure these limits.

1. Any attempt to influence any legislation
through an effort to affect the opinions of
the general public or any segment thereof
(grass roots lobbying), and
2. Any attempt to influence any legislation
through communication with any member
or employee of a legislative body or with
any government official or employee who
may participate in the formulation of legislation (direct lobbying).
However, the term attempting to influence legislation doesn't include the following activities.
1. Making available the results of nonpartisan
analysis, study, or research.
2. Examining and discussing broad social,
economic, and similar problems.
3. Providing technical advice or assistance
(where the advice would otherwise constitute the influencing of legislation) to a governmental body or to a committee or other
subdivision thereof in response to a written request by that body or subdivision.
4. Appearing before, or communicating with,
any legislative body about a possible decision of that body that might affect the existence of the organization, its powers and
duties, its tax-exempt status, or the deduction of contributions to the organization.
5. Communicating with a government official
or employee, other than:
a. A communication with a member or
employee of a legislative body (when
the communication would otherwise
constitute the influencing of legislation), or
b. A communication with the principal
purpose of influencing legislation.
Also excluded are communications between an
organization and its bona fide members about
legislation or proposed legislation of direct interChapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

est to the organization and the members, unless
these communications directly encourage the
members to attempt to influence legislation or
directly encourage the members to urge nonmembers to attempt to influence legislation, as
explained earlier.
Lobbying expenditures limits. If a public
charity makes the election under section 501(h)
to be subject to the lobbying expenditures limits
rules (instead of the substantial part of activities
test), it won't lose its tax-exempt status under
section 501(c)(3), unless it normally makes:
• Lobbying expenditures that are more than
150% of the lobbying nontaxable amount
for the organization for each tax year, or
• Grass roots expenditures that are more
than 150% of the grass roots nontaxable
amount for the organization for each tax
year.
See Tax on excess expenditures to influence
legislation, later, in this section.
Lobbying expenditures. These are any
expenditures that are made for the purpose of
attempting to influence legislation, as discussed
earlier under Attempting to influence legislation.
Grass roots expenditures. This term refers only to those lobbying expenditures that are
made to influence legislation by attempting to
affect the opinions of the general public or any
segment thereof.
Lobbying nontaxable amount. The lobbying nontaxable amount for any organization for
any tax year is the lesser of $1,000,000 or:
1. 20% of the exempt purpose expenditures
if the exempt purpose expenditures aren't
over $500,000,
2. $100,000 plus 15% of the excess of the
exempt purpose expenditures over
$500,000 if the exempt purpose expenditures are over $500,000 but not over
$1,000,000,
3. $175,000 plus 10% of the excess of the
exempt purpose expenditures over
$1,000,000 if the exempt purpose expenditures are over $1,000,000 but not over
$1,500,000, or
4. $225,000 plus 5% of the excess of the exempt purpose expenditures over
$1,500,000 if the exempt purpose expenditures are over $1,500,000.
The term exempt purpose expenditures
means the total of the amounts paid or incurred
(including depreciation and amortization, but
not capital expenditures) by an organization for
the tax year to accomplish its exempt purposes.
In addition, it includes:
1. Administrative expenses paid or incurred
for the organization's exempt purposes,
and
2. Amounts paid or incurred for the purpose
of influencing legislation, whether or not
the legislation promotes the organization's
exempt purposes.
Exempt purpose expenditures don't include
amounts paid or incurred to or for:

Publication 557 (1-2025)

1. A separate fundraising unit of the organization, or
2. One or more other organizations, if the
amounts are paid or incurred primarily for
fundraising.
Grass roots nontaxable amount. The
grass roots nontaxable amount for any organization for any tax year is 25% of the lobbying
nontaxable amount for the organization for that
tax year.
Years for which election is effective. Once
an organization elects to come under these provisions, the election will be in effect for all tax
years that end after the date of the election and
begin before the organization revokes this election.
Note. These elective provisions for lobbying
activities by public charities don't apply to a
church, an integrated auxiliary of a church or of
a convention or association of churches, or a
member of an affiliated group of organizations
that includes a church, etc., or a private foundation. Moreover, these provisions won't apply to
any organization for which an election isn't in effect.
Expenditures of affiliated organizations. If
two or more section 501(c)(3) organizations are
members of an affiliated group of organizations
and at least one of these organizations has
made the election regarding the treatment of
certain lobbying expenditures, then the determination as to whether excess lobbying expenditures has been made and the determination as
to whether the expenditure limits, described
earlier, has been exceeded by more than 150%
will be made as though the affiliated group is
one organization.
If the group has excess lobbying expenditures, each organization for which the election is
effective for the year will be treated as an organization that has excess lobbying expenditures in
an amount that equals the organization's proportionate share of the group's excess lobbying
expenditures. Further, if the expenditure limits
described in this section are exceeded by more
than 150%, each organization for which the
election is effective for that year will lose its
tax-exempt status under section 501(c)(3).
Two organizations will be considered members of an affiliated group of organizations if:
1. The governing instrument of one of the organizations requires it to be bound by decisions of the other organization on legislative issues, or
2. The governing board of one of the organizations includes persons who:
a. Are specifically designated representatives of the other organization or are
members of the governing board, officers, or paid executive staff members
of the other organization; and
b. Have enough voting power to cause
or prevent action on legislative issues
by the controlled organization by combining their votes.
Tax on excess expenditures to influence
legislation. If an election for a tax year is in efPublication 557 (1-2025)

fect for an organization and that organization
exceeds the lobbying expenditures limits, an excise tax of 25% of the excess lobbying expenditures for the tax year will be imposed. Excess
lobbying expenditures for a tax year, in this
case, means the greater of:
1. The amount by which the lobbying expenditures made by the organization during
the tax year are more than the lobbying
nontaxable amount for the organization for
that tax year, or
2. The amount by which the grass roots expenditures made by the organization during the tax year are more than the grass
roots nontaxable amount for the organization for that tax year.
Eligible organizations that have made the election to be subject to the limits on lobbying expenditures and that owe the tax on excess lobbying expenditures (as computed in Part II-A of
Schedule C (Form 990)) must file Form 4720,
Return of Certain Excise Taxes Under Chapters
41 and 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, to report and pay the tax.
Organization that no longer qualifies. An
organization that no longer qualifies for exemption under section 501(c)(3) because of substantial lobbying activities won't at any time
thereafter be treated as an organization described in section 501(c)(4). This provision, however, doesn't apply to certain organizations
(churches, etc.) that can't make the election discussed earlier.
Tax on disqualifying lobbying expenditures.
The law imposes a tax on certain organizations
if they no longer qualify under section 501(c)(3)
by reason of having made disqualifying lobbying
expenditures. An additional tax may be imposed on the managers of those organizations.
Tax on organization. Organizations that
lose their exemption under section 501(c)(3)
due to lobbying activities generally will be subject to an excise tax of 5% of the lobbying expenditures. The tax doesn't apply to private
foundations. Also, the tax doesn't apply to organizations that have elected the lobbying limits
of section 501(h) or to churches or church-related organizations that can't elect these limits.
This tax must be paid by the organization.
Tax on managers. Managers may also be
liable for a 5% tax on the lobbying expenditures
that result in the disqualification of the organization. For the tax to apply, a manager would have
to agree to the expenditures knowing that the
expenditures were likely to result in the organization's not being described in section 501(c)
(3). No tax will be imposed if the manager's
agreement isn't willful and is due to reasonable
cause.

100% of the expenditure is imposed if the political expenditure that resulted in the imposition of
the initial (first-tier) tax isn't corrected within a
specified period. These taxes must be paid by
the organization.
Taxes on managers. An initial tax of 21/2%
of the amount of certain political expenditures
(up to $5,000 for each expenditure) is imposed
on a manager of an organization who agrees to
such expenditures knowing that they are political expenditures. No tax will be imposed if the
manager's agreement wasn't willful and was
due to reasonable cause. A second tax of 50%
of the expenditures (up to $10,000 for each expenditure) is imposed on a manager if they refuse to agree to a correction of the expenditures
that resulted in the imposition of the initial
(first-tier) tax. For purposes of these taxes, an
organization manager is generally an officer, director, trustee, or any employee having authority or responsibility concerning the organization's political expenditures. These taxes must
be paid by the manager of the organization.
Political expenditures. Generally, political
expenditures that will trigger these taxes are
amounts paid or incurred by a section 501(c)(3)
organization in any participation or intervention
in any political campaign for or against any candidate for public office. Political expenditures include publication or distribution of statements
for these purposes. Political expenditures also
include certain expenditures by organizations
that are formed primarily to promote the candidacy (or prospective candidacy) of an individual
for public office and by organizations that are effectively controlled by a candidate and are used
primarily to promote that candidate.
Correction of expenditure. A correction of
a political expenditure is the recovery, if possible, of all or part of the expenditure and the establishment of safeguards to prevent future political expenditures.
Status after loss of exemption for lobbying
or political activities. As explained earlier, an
organization can lose its tax-exempt status under section 501(c)(3) because of lobbying activities or participation or intervention in a political
campaign on behalf of or in opposition to a candidate for public office. If this happens to an organization, it can't later qualify for exemption
under section 501(c)(4).

Excise taxes on political expenditures. The
law imposes an excise tax on the political expenditures of section 501(c)(3) organizations. A
two-tier tax is imposed on both the organizations and the managers of those organizations.
Taxes on organizations. An initial tax of
10% of certain political expenditures is imposed
on a charitable organization. A second tax of
Chapter 3

Section 501(c)(3) Organizations

47

4.
Other Section
501(c)
Organizations
Introduction
This chapter contains specific information for
certain organizations described in section
501(c), other than those organizations that are
described in section 501(c)(3). Section 501(c)
(3) organizations are covered in chapter 3 of
this publication.
The Table of Contents at the beginning of
this publication, as well as the Organization Reference Chart, may help you locate at a glance
the type of organization discussed in this chapter.

501(c)(4) - Civic Leagues
and Social Welfare
Organizations
If your organization isn't organized for profit and
will be operated primarily to promote social welfare to benefit the community, it may qualify for
exemption under section 501(c)(4).
Notice requirement. Every new section
501(c)(4) organization must use Form 8976,
Notice of Intent to Operate Under Section
501(c)(4), to provide notice to the Internal Revenue Service. The organization must file Form
8976 within 60 days of establishment. Providing
notice on Form 8976 is not a determination that
the IRS recognizes your organization as exempt
under section 501(c)(4).
Optional application for recognition of exemption. Your organization may (but is not required to) file Form 1024-A, Application for Recognition of Exemption under Section 501(c)(4),
to apply for recognition of exemption from federal income tax under section 501(c)(4). The
discussion that follows describes the information you must provide when applying. For application procedures, see chapter 1.
To qualify for exemption under section
501(c)(4), no part of the organization's net earnings can inure to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual. If the organization
provides an excess benefit to certain persons,
an excise tax may be imposed. See Excise tax
on excess benefit transactions, under Excess
Benefit Transactions in chapter 5 for more information about this tax.
Examples. Types of organizations that are
considered to be social welfare organizations
are civic associations and volunteer fire companies.
48

Nonprofit operation. You must submit evidence that your organization is organized and
will be operated on a nonprofit basis. However,
such evidence, including the fact that your organization is organized under a state law relating to nonprofit corporations, won't in itself establish a social welfare purpose.
Social welfare. To establish that your organization is operated primarily to promote social
welfare, you should submit evidence with your
application showing that your organization will
operate primarily to further (in some way) the
common good and general welfare of the people of the community (such as by bringing about
civic betterment and social improvements).
An organization that restricts the use of its
facilities to employees of selected corporations
and their guests is primarily benefiting a private
group rather than the community. It therefore
doesn't qualify as a section 501(c)(4) organization. Similarly, an organization formed to represent member-tenants of an apartment complex
doesn't qualify, since its activities benefit the
member-tenants and not all tenants in the community. However, an organization formed to promote the legal rights of all tenants in a particular
community may qualify under section 501(c)(4)
as a social welfare organization.
Political activity. Promoting social welfare
doesn't include direct or indirect participation or
intervention in political campaigns on behalf of
or in opposition to any candidate for public office. However, if you submit proof that your organization is organized primarily to promote social welfare, it can obtain exemption even if it
participates legally in some political activity on
behalf of or in opposition to candidates for public office. See the discussion in chapter 2 under
Political Organization Income Tax Return.
Social or recreational activity. If social activities will be the primary purpose of your organization, you shouldn't file an application for exemption as a social welfare organization but you
may qualify for exemption as a social club described in section 501(c)(7).
Retirement benefit program. An organization
established by its members that has as its primary activity providing supplemental retirement
benefits to its members or death benefits to
their beneficiaries doesn't qualify as an exempt
social welfare organization. It may qualify under
another paragraph of section 501(c) depending
on all the facts.
However, a nonprofit association that is established, maintained, and funded by a local
government to provide the only retirement benefits to a class of employees may qualify as a
social welfare organization under section 501(c)
(4).
Tax treatment of donations. Donations to volunteer fire companies are deductible on the donor's federal income tax return, but only if made
for exclusively public purposes. However, contributions to civic leagues or other section 501(c)
(4) organizations generally aren't deductible as
charitable contributions for federal income tax
purposes. They may be deductible as trade or
business expenses, if ordinary and necessary
in the conduct of the taxpayer's business. HowChapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

ever, see Deduction not allowed for dues used
for political or legislative activities, under 501(c)
(6) - Business Leagues, etc. for more information.
For more information on social welfare organizations, see Life Cycle of a Social Welfare
Organization.

Specific Organizations
The following information should be contained
in the application form and accompanying statements of certain types of civic leagues or social
welfare organizations.
Volunteer fire companies. If your organization wishes to obtain exemption as a volunteer
fire company or similar organization, you should
submit evidence that its members are actively
engaged in firefighting and similar disaster assistance, whether it actually owns the firefighting equipment, and whether it provides any assistance for its members, such as death and
medical benefits in case of injury to them.
If your organization doesn't have an independent social purpose, such as providing recreational facilities for members, it may be exempt under section 501(c)(3). In this event, your
organization should file Form 1023.
Homeowners' associations. A membership
organization formed by a real estate developer
to own and maintain common green areas,
streets, and sidewalks and to enforce covenants
to preserve the appearance of the development
should show that it is operated for the benefit of
all the residents of the community. The term
community generally refers to a geographical
unit recognizable as a governmental subdivision, unit, or district thereof. Whether a particular association meets the requirement of benefiting a community depends on the facts and
circumstances of each case. Even if an area
represented by an association isn't a community, the association can still qualify for exemption
if its activities benefit a community.
The association should submit evidence that
areas such as roadways and park land that it
owns and maintains are open to the general
public and not just its own members. It also
must show that it doesn't engage in exterior
maintenance of private homes.
A homeowners' association that isn't exempt
under section 501(c)(4) and that is a condominium management association, a residential real
estate management association, or a timeshare
association generally can elect, under the provisions of section 528, to receive certain tax benefits that, in effect, permit it to exclude its exempt function income from its gross income.
Other organizations. Other nonprofit organizations that qualify as social welfare organizations include:
• An organization operating an airport that is
on land owned by a local government,
which supervises the airport's operation,
and that serves the general public in an
area with no other airport;
• A community association that works to improve public services, housing, and residential parking; publishes a free community newspaper; sponsors a community
Publication 557 (1-2025)

sports league, holiday programs, and
meetings; and contracts with a private security service to patrol the community;
• A community association devoted to preserving the community's traditions, architecture, and appearance by representing it
before the local legislature and administrative agencies in zoning, traffic, and parking
matters;
• An organization that tries to encourage industrial development and relieve unemployment in an area by making loans to
businesses so they will relocate to the
area; and
• An organization that holds an annual festival of regional customs and traditions.

501(c)(5) - Labor,
Agricultural, and
Horticultural
Organizations
If you are a member of an organization that
wants to obtain recognition of exemption from
federal income tax as a labor, agricultural, or
horticultural organization, you should submit an
application on Form 1024. You must indicate in
your application for exemption and accompanying statements that no part of the organization's
net earnings will inure to the benefit of any
member. In addition, you should follow the procedure for obtaining recognition of exempt status described in chapter 1. Submit any additional information that may be required, as
described in this section.
Tax treatment of donations. Contributions to
labor, agricultural, and horticultural organizations aren't deductible as charitable contributions on the donor's federal income tax return.
However, such payments may be deductible as
business expenses if they are ordinary and necessary in the conduct of the taxpayer's trade or
business. For more information about certain
limits affecting the deductibility of these business expenses, see Deduction not allowed for
dues used for political or legislative activities,
under 501(c)(6) - Business Leagues, etc.

Labor Organizations
A labor organization is an association of workers who have combined to protect and promote
the interests of the members by bargaining collectively with their employers to secure better
working conditions, wages, and similar benefits.
To show that your organization has the purpose of a labor organization, you should include
in your organizing document or accompanying
statements (submitted with your exemption application) information establishing that the organization is organized to better the conditions
of workers, improve the grade of their products,
and develop a higher degree of efficiency in
their respective occupations. In addition, no net
earnings of the organization can inure to the
benefit of any member.
Composition of membership. While a labor
organization is generally composed of employPublication 557 (1-2025)

ees or representatives of the employees (in the
form of collective bargaining agents) and similar
employee groups, evidence that an organization's membership consists mainly of workers
doesn't in itself indicate an exempt purpose.
You must show in your application that your organization has the purposes described in the
preceding paragraph. These purposes can be
accomplished by a single labor organization
acting alone or by several organizations acting
together through a separate organization.
Benefits to members. The payment by a labor organization of death, sick, accident, and
similar benefits to its individual members with
funds contributed by its members, if made under a plan to better the conditions of the members, doesn't preclude exemption as a labor organization. However, an organization doesn't
qualify for exemption as a labor organization if
its primary activity is to provide a strike fund that
is controlled by private individuals who controlled the organization that paid benefits to workers.
For more information on labor organizations,
see Life Cycle of a Labor Organization.

Agricultural and
Horticultural Organizations
Agricultural and horticultural organizations are
connected with raising livestock, cultivating
land, raising and harvesting crops or aquatic resources, cultivating useful or ornamental plants,
and similar pursuits.
For the purpose of these provisions, aquatic
resources include only animal or vegetable life,
but not mineral resources. The term harvesting,
in this case, includes fishing and related pursuits.
Agricultural organizations are often designed to encourage the development of better
agricultural and horticultural products through a
system of awards, using income from entry
fees, gate receipts, and donations to meet the
necessary expenses of upkeep and operation.
When the activities are directed toward the improvement of marketing or other business conditions in one or more lines of business, rather
than the improvement of production techniques
or the betterment of the conditions of persons
engaged in agriculture, the organization must
qualify for exemption as a business league,
board of trade, or other organization, as discussed next in the section on 501(c)(6) organizations.
The primary purpose of exempt agricultural
and horticultural organizations must be to better
the conditions of those engaged in agriculture
or horticulture, develop more efficiency in agriculture or horticulture, or improve the products.
The following list contains some examples of
activities that show an agricultural or horticultural purpose.
1. Promoting various cooperative agricultural, horticultural, and civic activities
among rural residents by a state, farm, or
home bureau.
2. Exhibiting livestock, farm products, and
other characteristic features of agriculture
and horticulture.
Chapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

3. Testing soil for members and nonmembers
of the farm bureau on a cost basis, the results of the tests and other recommendations being furnished to the community
members to educate them in soil treatment.
4. Guarding the purity of a specific breed of
livestock.
5. Encouraging improvements in the production of fish on privately owned fish farms.
6. Negotiating with processors for the price
to be paid to members for their crops.
For more information on agricultural or horticultural organizations, see Life Cycle of an
Agricultural or Horticultural Organization.

501(c)(6) Business Leagues, etc.
If your organization wants to apply for recognition of exemption from federal income tax as a
nonprofit business league, chamber of commerce, real estate board, or board of trade, it
should file Form 1024. For a discussion of the
procedure to follow, see chapter 1.
Your organization must indicate in its application form and attached statements that no
part of its net earnings will inure to the benefit of
any private shareholder or individual and that it
isn't organized for profit or organized to engage
in an activity ordinarily carried on for profit (even
if the business is operated on a cooperative basis or produces only sufficient income to be
self-sustaining).
In addition, your organization must be primarily engaged in activities or functions that are
the basis for its exemption. It must be primarily
supported by membership dues and other income from activities substantially related to its
exempt purpose.
A business league, in general, is an association of persons having some common business
interest, the purpose of which is to promote that
common interest and not to engage in a regular
business of a kind ordinarily carried on for profit.
Trade associations and professional associations are considered business leagues.
Chamber of commerce. A chamber of commerce is usually composed of the merchants
and traders of a city.
Board of trade. A board of trade often consists of persons engaged in similar lines of business. For example, a nonprofit organization
formed to regulate the sale of a specified agricultural commodity to assure equal treatment of
producers, warehouse workers, and buyers is a
board of trade.
Chambers of commerce and boards of trade
usually promote the common economic interests of all the commercial enterprises in a given
trade community.
Real estate board. A real estate board consists of members interested in improving the
business conditions in the real estate field. It
isn't organized for profit and no part of the net
49

earnings inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.

board of trade and isn't exempt under section
501(c)(6).

Professional football leagues. The Internal
Revenue Code specifically defines professional
football leagues as exempt organizations under
section 501(c)(6). They are exempt whether or
not they administer a pension fund for football
players.

Legislative activity. An organization that is exempt under section 501(c)(6) can work for the
enactment of laws to advance the common
business interests of the organization's members.

General purpose. You must indicate in the
material submitted with your application that
your organization will be devoted to the improvement of business conditions of one or
more lines of business as distinguished from
the performance of particular services for individual persons. It must be shown that the conditions of a particular trade or the interests of the
community will be advanced. Merely indicating
the name of the organization or the object of the
local statute under which it is created isn't
enough to demonstrate the required general
purpose.
Line of business. This term generally refers either to an entire industry or to all components of an industry within a geographic area. It
doesn't include a group composed of businesses that market a particular brand within an
industry.
Common business interest. A common business interest of all members of the organization
must be established by the application documents.
Examples. Activities that would tend to illustrate a common business interest are:
1. Promotion of higher business standards
and better business methods and encouragement of uniformity and cooperation by
a retail merchants association,
2. Education of the public in the use of credit,
3. Establishment of uniform casualty rates
and compilation of statistical information
by an insurance rating bureau operated by
casualty insurance companies,
4. Establishment and maintenance of the integrity of a local commercial market,
5. Operation of a trade publication primarily
intended to benefit an entire industry, and
6. Encouragement of the use of goods and
services of an entire industry (such as a
lawyer referral service whose main purpose is to introduce individuals to the use
of the legal profession in the hope that
they will enter into lawyer-client relationships on a paying basis as a result).
Improvement of business conditions.
Generally, this must be shown to be the purpose of the organization. This isn't established
by evidence of particular services that provide a
convenience or economy to individual members
in their businesses, such as advertising that
carries the name of members, interest-free
loans, assigning exclusive franchise areas, operation of a real estate multiple listing system, or
operation of a credit reporting agency.

Deduction not allowed for dues used for political or legislative activities. A taxpayer
can't deduct the part of dues or other payments
to a business league, trade association, labor
union, or similar organization that is reported to
the taxpayer by the organization as having been
used for any of the following activities.
1. Influencing legislation.
2. Participating or intervening in a political
campaign for, or against, any candidate for
public office.
3. Trying to influence the general public, or
part of the general public, with respect to
elections, legislative matters, or referendums (also known as grass roots lobbying).
4. Communicating directly with certain executive branch officials to try to influence
their official actions or positions.
See Dues Used for Lobbying or Political Activities under Required Disclosures in chapter 2 for
more information.
De minimis exception. In-house expenditures of $2,000 or less for the year for activities
(1) – (4) listed earlier won't prevent a deduction
for dues if the dues meet all other tests to be
deductible as a business expense.
Grass roots lobbying. A tax-exempt trade
association, labor union, or similar organization
is considered to be engaging in grass roots lobbying if it contacts prospective members or calls
upon its own members to contact their employees and customers for the purpose of urging
such persons to communicate with their elected
state or Congressional representatives to support the promotion, defeat, or repeal of legislation that is of direct interest to the organization.
Any dues or assessments directly related to
such activities aren't deductible by the taxpayer,
since the individuals being contacted, who
aren't members of the organization, are a segment of the general public.
Tax treatment of donations. Contributions to
organizations described in this section aren't
deductible as charitable contributions on the
donor's federal income tax return. They may be
deductible as trade or business expenses if ordinary and necessary in the conduct of the taxpayer's business.
For more information on business leagues,
see Life Cycle of a Business League (Trade
Association) on IRS.gov.

501(c)(7) - Social and
Recreation Clubs

Stock or commodity exchange. A stock or
commodity exchange isn't a business league,
chamber of commerce, real estate board, or

If your club is organized for pleasure, recreation,
and other similar nonprofitable purposes and

50

Chapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

substantially all of its activities are for these purposes, it should file Form 1024 to apply for recognition of exemption from federal income tax.
In applying for recognition of exemption, you
should submit the information described in this
section. Also see chapter 1 for the procedures
to follow.
Typical organizations that should file for recognition of exemption as social clubs include:
• College alumni associations that aren't described in chapter 3 under Alumni association;
• College fraternities or sororities operating
chapter houses for students;
• Country clubs;
• Amateur hunting, fishing, tennis, swimming, and other sport clubs;
• Dinner clubs that provide a meeting place,
library, and dining room for members;
• Hobby clubs;
• Garden clubs; and
• Variety clubs.
Discrimination prohibited. Your organization
won't be recognized as tax exempt if its charter,
bylaws, or other governing instrument, or any
written policy statement provides for discrimination against any person on the basis of race,
color, or religion.
However, a club that in good faith limits its
membership to the members of a particular religion to further the teachings or principles of that
religion and not to exclude individuals of a particular race or color won't be considered as discriminating on the basis of religion. Also, the restriction on religious discrimination doesn't
apply to a club that is an auxiliary of a fraternal
beneficiary society (discussed later) if that society is described in section 501(c)(8) and exempt from tax under section 501(a) and limits
its membership to the members of a particular
religion.
Private benefit prohibited. No part of the organization's net earnings can inure to the benefit of any person having a personal and private
interest in the activities of the organization. For
purposes of this requirement, it isn't necessary
that net earnings be actually distributed. Even
undistributed earnings can benefit members.
Examples of this include a decrease in membership dues or an increase in the services the
club provides to its members without a corresponding increase in dues or other fees paid for
club support. However, fixed-fee payments to
members who bring new members into the club
aren't an inurement of the club's net earnings, if
the payments are reasonable compensation for
performance of a necessary administrative
service.
Purposes. To show that your organization possesses the characteristics of a club within the
meaning of the exemption law, you should submit evidence with your application that personal
contact, commingling, and fellowship exist
among members. You must show that members
are bound together by a common objective of
pleasure, recreation, and other nonprofitable
purposes.
Fellowship need not be present between
each member and every other member of a
club if it is a material part in the life of the
Publication 557 (1-2025)

organization. A statewide or nationwide organization that is made up of individual members,
but is divided into local groups, satisfies this requirement if fellowship is a material part of the
life of each local group.
The term other nonprofitable purposes
means other purposes similar to pleasure and
recreation. For example, a club that, in addition
to its social activities, has a plan for the payment of sick and death benefits isn't operating
exclusively for pleasure, recreation, and other
nonprofitable purposes.
Limited membership. The membership in
a social club must be limited. To show that your
organization has a purpose that would characterize it as a club, you should submit evidence
with your application that there are limits on admission to membership consistent with the
character of the club.
A social club that issues corporate membership is dealing with the general public in the
form of the corporation's employees. Corporate
members of a club aren't the kind of members
contemplated by the law. Gross receipts from
these members would be a factor in determining whether the club qualifies as a social club.
See Gross receipts from nonmembership
sources., later. Bona fide individual memberships paid for by a corporation wouldn't have an
effect on the gross receipts source.
The fact that a social club may have an associate (nonvoting) class of membership won't
be, in and of itself, a cause for nonrecognition of
exemption. However, if one membership class
pays substantially lower dues and fees than another membership class, although both classes
enjoy the same rights and privileges in using the
club facilities, there may be an inurement of income to the benefited class, resulting in a denial of the club's exemption.
Support. In general, your club should be
supported solely by membership fees, dues,
and assessments. However, if otherwise entitled to exemption, your club won't be disqualified because it raises revenue from members
through the use of club facilities or in connection with club activities.
Business activities. If your club will engage in
business, such as selling real estate, timber, or
other products or services, it generally will be
denied exemption. However, evidence submitted with your application form that your organization will provide meals, refreshments, or services related to its exempt purposes only to its
own members or their dependents or guests
won't cause denial of exemption.
Facilities open to public. Evidence that
your club's facilities will be open to the general
public (persons other than members or their dependents or guests) may cause denial of exemption. This doesn't mean, however, that any
dealing with outsiders will automatically deprive
a club of exemption.
Gross receipts from nonmembership
sources. A section 501(c)(7) organization can
receive up to 35% of its gross receipts, including investment income, from sources outside of
its membership without losing its tax-exempt
status. Income from nontraditional business activity with members isn't exempt function
Publication 557 (1-2025)

income, and thus is included as income from
sources outside of the membership. Of the 35%
gross receipts listed above, up to 15% of the
gross receipts can be derived from the use of
the club's facilities or services by the general
public. If an organization has outside income
that is more than these limits, all the facts and
circumstances will be taken into account in determining whether the organization qualifies for
exempt status.
Gross receipts. Gross receipts, for this
purpose, are receipts from the normal and usual
(traditionally conducted) activities of the club.
These receipts include charges, admissions,
membership fees, dues, assessments, investment income, and normal recurring capital
gains on investments. Receipts don't include initiation fees and capital contributions. Unusual
amounts of income, such as from the sale of a
clubhouse or similar facility, aren't included in
gross receipts or in figuring the percentage
limits.
Nontraditional activities. Traditional business activities are those that further a social
club's exempt purposes. Nontraditional business activities don't further the exempt purposes of a social club even if conducted solely on
a membership basis. Nontraditional business
activities are prohibited (subject to an insubstantial, trivial, and nonrecurrent test) for businesses conducted with both members and nonmembers. Examples of nontraditional business
activities include sale of package liquor,
take-out food, and long-term room rental.
Fraternity foundations. If your organization is
a foundation formed for the exclusive purpose
of acquiring and leasing a chapter house to a
local fraternity chapter or sorority chapter maintained at an educational institution and doesn't
engage in any social or recreational activities, it
may be a title holding corporation (discussed
later under section 501(c)(2) organizations and
under section 501(c)(25) organizations) rather
than a social club.
Tax treatment of donations. Donations to exempt social and recreation clubs aren't deductible as charitable contributions on the donor's
federal income tax return.

501(c)(8) and
501(c)(10) - Fraternal
Beneficiary Societies
and Domestic Fraternal
Societies
This section describes the information to be
provided upon application for recognition of exemption by two types of fraternal societies: beneficiary and domestic. The major distinction is
that fraternal beneficiary societies provide for
the payment of life, sick, accident, or other benefits to their members or their dependents,
while domestic fraternal societies don't provide
these benefits but rather devote their earnings
to fraternal, religious, charitable, etc., purposes.
The procedures to follow in applying for recognition of exemption are described in chapter 1.
Chapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

If your organization is controlled by a central
organization, you should check with your controlling organization to determine whether your
unit has been included in a group exemption letter or can be added. If so, your organization
need not apply for individual recognition of exemption. For more information, see Group Exemption Letter in chapter 1 of this publication.
Tax treatment of donations. Donations by an
individual to a domestic fraternal beneficiary society or a domestic fraternal society operating
under the lodge system are deductible as charitable contributions only if used exclusively for
religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes or for the prevention of cruelty
to children or animals.

Fraternal Beneficiary
Societies (501(c)(8))
A fraternal beneficiary society, order, or association must file an application for recognition of
exemption from federal income tax on Form
1024. The application and accompanying statements should establish that the organization:
1. Is a fraternal organization;
2. Operates under the lodge system or for
the exclusive benefit of the members of a
fraternal organization itself operating under the lodge system; and
3. Provides for the payment of life, sick, accident, or other benefits to the members of
the society, order, or association or their
dependents.
Lodge system. Operating under the lodge
system means carrying on activities under a
form of organization that comprises local
branches, chartered by a parent organization
and largely self-governing, called lodges, chapters, or the like.
Payment of benefits. It isn't essential that
every member be covered by the society's program of sick, accident, or death benefits. An organization can qualify for exemption if most of
its members are eligible for benefits, and the
benefits are paid from contributions or dues
paid by those members.
The benefits must be limited to members
and their dependents. If members will have the
ability to confer benefits to other than themselves and their dependents, exemption won't
be recognized.
Whole-life insurance. Whole-life insurance constitutes a life benefit under section
501(c)(8) even though the policy may contain
investment features such as a cash surrender
value or a policy loan.
Reinsurance pool. Payments by a fraternal
beneficiary society into a state-sponsored reinsurance pool that protects participating insurers
against excessive losses on major medical
health and accident insurance won't preclude
exemption as a fraternal beneficiary society.

51

Domestic Fraternal Societies
(501(c)(10))
A domestic fraternal society, order, or association must file an application for recognition of
exemption from federal income tax on Form
1024. The application and accompanying statements should establish that the organization:
1. Is a domestic fraternal organization organized in the United States;
2. Operates under the lodge system;
3. Devotes its net earnings exclusively to religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational, and fraternal purposes; and
4. Doesn’t provide for the payment of life,
sick, accident, or other benefits to its
members.
The organization can arrange with insurance
companies to provide optional insurance to its
members without jeopardizing its exempt status.

501(c)(4), 501(c)(9), and
501(c)(17) Employees'
Associations
This section describes the information to be
provided upon application for recognition of exemption by the following types of employees'
associations:
1. A voluntary employees' beneficiary association (including federal employees' associations) organized to pay life, sick, accident, and similar benefits to members or
their dependents, or designated beneficiaries, if no part of the net earnings of the association inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual; and
2. A supplemental unemployment benefit
trust whose primary purpose is providing
for payment of supplemental unemployment benefits.
Both the application form to file and the information to provide are discussed later under
the section that describes your employee association. Chapter 1 describes the procedures to
follow in applying for exemption.
Tax treatment of donations. Donations to
these organizations aren't deductible as charitable contributions on the donor's federal income
tax return.

Local Employees'
Associations (501(c)(4))

1024-A. The organization must submit evidence
that:
1. It is of a purely local character;
2. Its membership is limited to employees of
a designated person or persons in a particular locality; and
3. Its net earnings will be devoted exclusively
to charitable, educational, or recreational
purposes.
A local association of employees that has
established a system of paying retirement or
death benefits, or both, to its members won't
qualify for exemption since the payment of
these benefits isn't considered as being for
charitable, educational, or recreational purposes. Similarly, a local association of employees
that is operated primarily as a cooperative buying service for its members in order to obtain
discount prices on merchandise, services, and
activities doesn't qualify for exemption.

Voluntary Employees'
Beneficiary Associations
(501(c)(9))
An application for recognition of exemption as a
voluntary employees' beneficiary association
must be filed on Form 1024. The material submitted with the application must show that your
organization:
1. Is a voluntary association of employees;
2. Will provide for payment of life, sick, accident, or other benefits to members or their
dependents or designated beneficiaries
and substantially all of its operations are
for this purpose; and
3. Won't allow any of its net earnings to inure
to the benefit of any private individual or
shareholder except in the form of scheduled benefit payments.
To be complete, an application must include a
copy of the document (such as the trust instrument) by which the organization was created; a
full description of the benefits available to participants and the terms and conditions of eligibility for benefits (usually contained in a plan
document); and, if providing benefits pursuant
to a collective bargaining agreement, a copy of
that agreement.
Note. Under section 4976, the reversion of
funds from a section 501(c)(9) organization to
the employer who created the beneficiary association may subject the employer to a 100%
penalty excise tax on the amount of the reversion.

A local association of employees whose membership is limited to employees of a designated
person or persons in a particular municipality,
and whose income will be devoted exclusively
to charitable, educational, or recreational purposes. A local employees' association must apply
for recognition of exemption by filing Form

Notice requirement. An organization won't be
considered tax exempt under this section unless the organization gives notice to the IRS that
it is applying for recognition of exempt status.
The organization gives notice by filing Form
1024. If the notice isn't given by 15 months after
the end of the month in which the organization
was created, the organization won't be exempt
for any period before notice is given. An extension of time for filing the notice can be granted
under the same procedures as those described

52

Chapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

for section 501(c)(3) organizations in chapter 3
under Application for Recognition of Exemption.
Membership. Membership of a section 501(c)
(9) organization must consist of individuals who
are employees and have an employment-related common bond. This common bond can be a
common employer (or affiliated employers),
coverage under one or more collective bargaining agreements, membership in a labor union,
or membership in one or more locals of a national or international labor union.
The membership of an association can include some individuals who aren't employees,
provided they have an employment-related
bond with the employee-members. For example, the owner of a business whose employees
are members of the association can be a member. An association will be considered composed of employees if 90% of its total membership on 1 day of each quarter of its tax year
consists of employees.
Employees. Employees include individuals
who became entitled to membership because
they are or were employees. For example, an individual will qualify as an employee even though
the individual is on a leave of absence or has
been terminated due to retirement, disability, or
layoff.
Generally, membership is voluntary if an affirmative act is required on the part of an employee to become a member. Conversely, membership is involuntary if the designation as a
member is due to employee status. However,
an association will be considered voluntary if
employees are required to be members of the
organization as a condition of their employment
and they don't incur a detriment (such as a payroll deduction) as a result of their membership.
An employer has not imposed involuntary membership on the employee if membership is required as the result of a collective bargaining
agreement or as an incident of membership in a
labor organization.
Payment of benefits. The information submitted with your application must show that your
organization will pay life, sick, accident, supplemental unemployment, or other similar benefits.
The benefits can be provided directly by your
association or indirectly by your association
through the payments of premiums to an insurance company (or fees to a medical clinic).
Benefits can be in the form of medical, clinical,
or hospital services, transportation furnished for
medical care, or money payments.
Nondiscrimination requirements. An organization that is part of a plan won't be exempt unless the plan meets certain nondiscrimination
requirements. However, if the organization is
part of a plan that is a collective bargaining
agreement that was the subject of good faith
bargaining between employee organizations
and employers, the plan need not meet these
requirements for the organization to qualify as
tax exempt.
A plan meets the nondiscrimination requirements only if both of the following statements
are true.
1. Each class of benefits under the plan is
provided under a classification of employees that is set forth in the plan and doesn't
Publication 557 (1-2025)

discriminate in favor of employees who are
highly compensated individuals.
2. The benefits provided under each class of
benefits don't discriminate in favor of
highly compensated individuals.
A life insurance, disability, severance pay, or
supplemental unemployment compensation
benefit doesn't discriminate in favor of highly
compensated individuals merely because the
benefits available bear a uniform relationship to
the total compensation, or the basic or regular
rate of compensation, of employees covered by
the plan.
If a plan provides a benefit for which there is
a nondiscrimination provision provided under
Chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code as a
condition of that benefit being excluded from
gross income, these nondiscrimination requirements don't apply. The benefit will be considered nondiscriminatory only if it meets the nondiscrimination provision of the applicable Code
section. For example, benefits provided under a
medical reimbursement plan would meet the
nondiscrimination requirements for an association, if the benefits meet the nondiscrimination
requirements of section 105(h)(3) and 105(h)
(4).
Excluded employees. Certain employees
who aren't covered by a plan can be excluded
from consideration in applying these requirements. These include employees:
1. Who haven't completed 3 years of service,
2. Who haven't attained age 21,
3. Who are seasonal or less than half-time
employees,
4. Who aren't in the plan and who are included in a unit of employees covered by a
collective bargaining agreement if the
class of benefits involved was the subject
of good faith bargaining, or
5. Who are nonresident aliens and who receive no earned income from the employer
that has United States sourced income.
Highly compensated individual. A highly
compensated individual is one who:
1. Owned 5% or more of the employer at any
time during the current year or the preceding year,
2. Received more than $125,000 in compensation from the employer for the preceding
year (the amount is annualized for inflation. Go to IRS.gov, and search “Pension
Plan Limitation” for the year), and
3. Was among the top 20% of employees by
compensation for the preceding year.
However, the employer can choose not to have
(3) apply.
Aggregation rules. The employer can
choose to treat two or more plans as one plan
for purposes of meeting the nondiscrimination
requirements. Employees of controlled groups
of corporations, trades, or businesses under
common control, or members of an affiliated
service group, are treated as employees of a
single employer. Leased employees are treated
as employees of the recipient.
Publication 557 (1-2025)

One employee. A trust created to provide benefits to one employee won't qualify as a voluntary employees' beneficiary association under
section 501(c)(9).

Supplemental
Unemployment Benefit
Trusts (501(c)(17))
A trust or trusts forming part of a written plan
(established and maintained by an employer,
the employees, or both) providing solely for the
payment of supplemental unemployment compensation benefits must file the application for
recognition of exemption on Form 1024. The
trust must be a valid, existing trust under local
law and must be evidenced by an executed
document. A conformed copy of the plan of
which the trust is a part should be attached to
the application.
To be complete, an application must include
a copy of the document (such as the trust instrument) by which the organization was created; a full description of the benefits available
to participants and the terms and conditions of
eligibility for benefits (usually contained in a
plan document); and, if providing benefits pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement, a
copy of that agreement.
Note. Under section 4976, the reversion of
funds from a section 501(c)(17) organization to
the employer who created the supplemental unemployment benefit trust may subject the employer to a 100% penalty excise tax on the
amount of the reversion.
Notice requirement. An organization won't be
considered tax exempt under this section unless the organization gives notice to the IRS that
it is applying for recognition of exempt status.
The organization gives notice by filing Form
1024. If the notice isn't given by 15 months after
the end of the month in which the organization
was created, the organization won't be exempt
for any period before such notice is given. An
extension of time for filing the notice is granted
under the same procedures as those described
for section 501(c)(3) organizations in chapter 3
under Application for Recognition of Exemption.
Types of payments. You must show that the
supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits will be benefits paid to an employee
because of the employee's involuntary separation from employment (whether or not the separation is temporary) resulting directly from a reduction-in-force, discontinuance of a plant or
operation, or other similar conditions. In addition, sickness and accident benefits (but not vacation, retirement, or death benefits) may be included in the plan if these are subordinate to the
unemployment compensation benefits.
Diversion of funds. It must be impossible under the plan (at any time before the satisfaction
of all liabilities with respect to employees under
the plan) to use or to divert any of the corpus or
income of the trust to any purpose other than
the payment of supplemental unemployment
compensation benefits (or sickness or accident
benefits to the extent just explained).
Chapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

Discrimination in benefits. Neither the terms
of the plan nor the actual payment of benefits
can be discriminatory in favor of the company's
officers, stockholders, supervisors, or highly
paid employees. However, a plan isn't discriminatory merely because benefits bear a uniform
relationship to compensation or the rate of compensation.
Prohibited transactions and exemption. If
your organization is a supplemental unemployment benefit trust and has received a denial of
exemption because it engaged in a prohibited
transaction, as defined by section 503(b), it can
file a claim for exemption in any tax year following the tax year in which the notice of denial
was issued. It must file the claim on Form 1024.
The organization must include a written declaration that it won't knowingly again engage in a
prohibited transaction. An authorized principal
officer of your organization must make this declaration under the penalties of perjury.
If your organization has satisfied all requirements as a supplemental unemployment benefit
trust described in section 501(c)(17), it will be
notified in writing that it has been recognized as
exempt. However, the organization will be exempt only for those tax years after the tax year
in which the claim for exemption (Form 1024) is
filed. Tax year in this case means the established annual accounting period of the organization or, if the organization has not established
an annual accounting period, the calendar year.
For more information about the requirements for
re-establishing an exemption previously denied,
contact the IRS.

501(c)(12) - Local
Benevolent Life
Insurance Associations,
Mutual Irrigation and
Telephone Companies,
and Like Organizations
Each of the following organizations apply for
recognition of exemption from federal income
tax by filing Form 1024.
1. Benevolent life insurance associations of a
purely local character and like organizations.
2. Mutual ditch or irrigation companies and
like organizations.
3. Mutual or cooperative telephone companies and like organizations.
A like organization is an organization that performs a service comparable to that performed
by any one of the above organizations.
The information to be provided upon application by each of these organizations is described in this section. For information as to the
procedures to follow in applying for exemption,
see chapter 1.
General requirements. These organizations
must use their income solely to cover losses
and expenses, with any excess being returned
to members or retained to cover future losses
53

and expenses. They must collect at least 85%
of their income from members for the sole purpose of meeting losses and expenses.
Mutual character. These organizations, other
than benevolent life insurance associations,
must be organized and operated on a mutual or
cooperative basis. They are associations of persons or organizations, or both, banded together
to provide themselves a mutually desirable
service approximately at cost and on a mutual
basis. To maintain the mutual characteristic of
democratic ownership and control, they must be
so organized and operated that their members
have the right to choose the management, to receive services at cost, to receive a return of any
excess of payments over losses and expenses,
and to share in any assets upon dissolution.
The rights and interests of members in the
annual savings of the organization must be determined in proportion to their business with the
organization. Upon dissolution, gains from the
sale of appreciated assets must be distributed
to all persons who were members during the
period the assets were owned by the organization in proportion to the amount of business
done during that period. The bylaws mustn't
provide for forfeiture of a member's rights and
interest upon withdrawal or termination.
Membership. Membership of a mutual organization consists of those who join the organization to obtain its services, and have a voice in
its management. In a stock company, the stockholders are members. However, a mutual life insurance organization can't have policyholders
other than its members.
Losses and expenses. In furnishing services substantially at cost, an organization must
use its income solely for paying losses and expenses. Any excess income not retained in reasonable reserves for future losses and expenses belongs to members in proportion to their
patronage or business done with the organization. If such patronage refunds are retained in
reasonable amounts for purposes of expanding
and improving facilities, retiring capital indebtedness, acquiring other assets, and unexpected expenses, the organization must maintain
records sufficient to reflect the equity of each
member in the assets acquired with the funds.
Distributions of proceeds. The cooperative may distribute the unexpended balance of
collections or assessments remaining on hand
at the end of the year to members or patrons
prorated on the basis of their patronage or business done with the cooperative. Such distribution represents a refund in the costs of services
rendered to the member.

The 85% Requirement
All of the organizations listed above must submit evidence with their application that they receive 85% or more of their gross income from
their members for the sole purpose of meeting
losses and expenses. Nevertheless, certain
items of income are excluded from the computation of the 85% requirement if the organization
is a mutual or cooperative telephone or electric
company.

54

Mutual or cooperative telephone company.
A mutual or cooperative telephone company will
exclude from the computation of the 85% requirement any income received or accrued
from:
1. A nonmember telephone company for the
performance of communication services
involving the completion of long distance
calls to, from, or between members of the
mutual or cooperative telephone company;
2. Qualified pole rentals;
3. The sale of display listings in a directory
furnished to its members; or
4. The prepayment of a loan created in 1987,
1988, or 1989, under section 306A, 306B,
or 311 of the Rural Electrification Act of
1936;
5. Grants, contributions, and assistance provided under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act or
by local, state, or regional governmental
entities for disasters or emergencies; and
certain grants or contributions provided by
a government entity for electric, communications, broadband, Internet, or other utility facilities or services. This is effective for
taxable years beginning after December
31, 2017.
Mutual or cooperative electric company. A
mutual or cooperative electric company will exclude from the computation of the 85% requirement any income received or accrued from:
1. Qualified pole rentals;
2. Any provision or sale of electric energy
transmission services or ancillary service
if the services are provided on a nondiscriminatory open access basis under an
open-access transmission tariff approved
or accepted by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) or under an independent transmission provider agreement approved or accepted by FERC
(other than income received or accrued directly or indirectly from a member);
3. The provision or sale of electric energy
distribution services or ancillary services if
the services are provided on a nondiscriminatory open-access basis to distribute
electric energy not owned by the mutual or
electric cooperative company:
a. To end-users who are served by distribution facilities not owned by the company or any of its members (other
than income received or accrued directly or indirectly from a member), or
b. Generated by a generation facility not
owned or leased by the company or
any of its members and which is directly connected to distribution facilities owned by the company or any of
its members (other than income received or accrued directly or indirectly
from a member),
4. Any nuclear decommissioning transaction,
5. Any asset exchange or conversion transaction; or

Chapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

6. Grants, contributions, and assistance provided under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act or
by local, state, or regional governmental
entities for disasters or emergencies; and
certain grants or contributions provided by
a government entity for electric, communications, broadband, Internet, or other utility facilities or services. This is effective for
taxable years beginning after December
31, 2017.
An electric cooperative's sale of excess fuel
at cost in the year of purchase isn't income for
purposes of determining compliance with the
85% requirement.
Qualified pole rental. The term qualified
pole rental means any rental of a pole (or other
structure used to support wires) if the pole (or
other structure) is used:
1. By the telephone or electric company to
support one or more wires that are used
by the company in providing telephone or
electric services to its members, and
2. Pursuant to the rental to support one or
more wires (in addition to wires described
in (1)) for use in connection with the transmission by wire of electricity or of telephone or other communications.
The term rental, for this purpose, includes
any sale of the right to use the pole (or other
structure).
The 85% requirement is applied on the basis of an annual accounting period. Failure of an
organization to meet the requirement in a particular year precludes exemption for that year, but
has no effect upon exemption for years in which
the 85% requirement is met.
Gain from the sale or conversion of the organization's property isn't considered an
amount received from members in determining
whether the organization's income consists of
amounts collected from members.
Because the 85% income test is based on
gross income, capital losses can't be used to
reduce capital gains for purposes of this test.
Example. The books of an organization reflect the following for the calendar year.
Collections from members . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Short-term capital gains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Short-term capital losses . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gross income ($2,400 + $600 = $3000) . . . .
Collected from members ($2,400) . . . . . . . .

$2,400
600
400
None
100%
80%

Since amounts collected from members
don't constitute at least 85% of gross income,
the organization isn't entitled to exemption from
federal income tax for the year.
Voluntary contributions in the nature of gifts
aren't taken into account for purposes of the
85% computation.
Other tax-exempt income besides gifts is
considered as income received from other than
members in applying the 85% test.
If the 85% test isn't met, your organization, if
classifiable under this section, won't qualify for
exemption as any other type of organization described in this publication.
Publication 557 (1-2025)

Tax treatment of donations. Donations to an
organization described in this section aren't deductible as charitable contributions on the donor's federal income tax return.

isn't a life insurance company. Such an organization can seek recognition of exemption from
federal income tax, however, as a mutual insurance company other than life.

Government grants. In the past, government
grants were not treated as income but as contributions to capital. Under the Tax Cuts & Jobs
Act, P.L. No. 115-97, section 13312, section
118 was amended so that government grants
may no longer be treated as capital contributions. In 2019, P.L. No. 116-94 amended section
501(c)(12) to exclude from the 85% requirement
certain government grants for assistance to mutual and cooperative telephone and electric
companies.

Mutual or Cooperative
Associations

Local Life Insurance
Associations
A benevolent life insurance association or an organization seeking recognition of exemption on
grounds of similarity to a benevolent life insurance association must submit evidence upon
applying for recognition of exemption that it will
be of a purely local character, that its excess
funds will be refunded to members or retained
in reasonable reserves to meet future losses
and expenses, and that it meets the 85% income requirement. If an organization issues
policies for stipulated cash premiums, or if it requires advance deposits to cover the cost of the
insurance and maintains investments from
which more than 15% of its income is derived, it
won't be entitled to exemption.
To establish that your organization is of a
purely local character, it should show that its activities will be confined to a particular community, place, or district irrespective of political subdivisions. If the activities of an organization are
limited only by the borders of a state, it can't be
purely local in character. A benevolent life insurance association that doesn't terminate membership when a member moves from the local
area in which the association operates will qualify for exemption if it meets the other requirements.
A copy of each type of policy issued by your
organization should be included with the application for recognition of exemption.
Organizations similar to local benevolent
life insurance companies. These organizations include those that, in addition to paying
death benefits, also provide for the payment of
sick, accident, or health benefits. However, an
organization that pays only sick, accident, or
health benefits, but not life insurance benefits,
isn't an organization similar to a benevolent life
insurance association and shouldn't apply for
recognition of exemption, as described in this
section.
Burial and funeral benefit insurance organization. This type of organization can apply
for recognition of exemption as an organization
similar to a benevolent life insurance company if
it establishes that the benefits are paid in cash
and if it isn't engaged directly in the manufacture of funeral supplies or the performance of
funeral services. An organization that provides
its benefits in the form of supplies and service
Publication 557 (1-2025)

Mutual ditch or irrigation companies, mutual or
cooperative telephone companies, and like organizations need not establish that they are of a
purely local character. They can serve noncontiguous areas.
Like organization. A like organization is a
cooperative or mutual organization that performs a service similar to mutual ditch, irrigation, telephone, or electric companies. Examples include the following: cooperatives that
provide protection of river banks to prevent erosion, water and sewer services, cable television, satellite, television, cellular phone services, two-way radio service, or natural gas
services.

501(c)(13) - Cemetery
Companies
If your organization wishes to obtain recognition
of exemption from federal income tax as a cemetery company or a corporation chartered solely
for the purpose of the disposal of human bodies
by burial or cremation, it must file an application
on Form 1024. For the procedure to follow to file
an application, see Application, Approval, and
Appeal Procedures in chapter 1.
A nonprofit mutual cemetery company that
seeks recognition of exemption should submit
evidence with its application that it is owned and
operated exclusively for the benefit of its lot
owners who hold lots for bona fide burial purposes and not for purposes of resale. A mutual
cemetery company that also engages in charitable activities, such as the burial of paupers,
will be regarded as operating within this standard. The fact that a mutual cemetery company
limits its membership to a particular class of individuals, such as members of a family, won't
affect its status as mutual so long as all the
other requirements of section 501(c)(13) are
met.
If your organization is a nonprofit corporation
chartered solely for the purpose of the disposal
of human bodies by burial or cremation, you
should show that it isn't permitted by its charter
to engage in any business not necessarily incident to that purpose. Operating a mortuary isn't
permitted. However, selling monuments, markers, vaults, and flowers solely for use in the
cemetery is permitted if the profits from these
sales are used to maintain the cemetery as a
whole.
How income can be used. You should show
that your organization's earnings are or will be
used only in one or more of the following ways.
1. To pay the ordinary and necessary expenses of operating, maintaining, and improving the cemetery or crematorium.

3. To create a fund that will provide a source
of income for the perpetual care of the
cemetery or a reasonable reserve for any
ordinary or necessary purpose.
No part of the net earnings of your organization can inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
Ordinary and necessary expenses in connection with the operation, management, maintenance, and improvement of the cemetery are
permitted, as are reasonable fees for the services of a manager.
Buying cemetery property. Payments can
be made to amortize debt incurred to buy land,
but can't be in the nature of profit distributions.
You must show the method used to finance the
purchase of the cemetery property and that the
purchase price of the land at the time of its sale
to the cemetery wasn't unreasonable.
Except for holders of preferred stock (discussed later), no person can have any interest
in the net earnings of a tax-exempt cemetery
company or crematorium. Therefore, if property
is transferred to the organization in exchange for
an interest in the organization's net earnings,
the organization won't be exempt so long as
that interest remains outstanding.
An equity interest in the organization is an
interest in the net earnings of the organization.
However, an interest in the organization that
isn't an equity interest may still be an interest in
the organization's net earnings. For example, a
bond issued by a cemetery company that provides for a fixed rate of interest and also provides for additional interest payments based on
the income of the organization is considered an
interest in the net earnings of the organization.
Similarly, a convertible debt obligation issued
after July 7, 1975, is considered an interest in
the net earnings of the organization.
Perpetual care organization. A perpetual
care organization, including, for example, a trust
organized to receive, maintain, and administer
funds that it receives from a nonprofit tax-exempt cemetery under state law and contracts,
can apply for recognition of exemption on Form
1024, even though it doesn't own the land used
for burial. However, the income from these
funds must be devoted exclusively to the perpetual care and maintenance of the nonprofit
cemetery as a whole. Also, no part of the net
earnings can inure to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.
In addition, a perpetual care organization not
operated for profit, but established as a civic enterprise to maintain and administer funds, the
income of which is devoted exclusively to the
perpetual care and maintenance of an abandoned cemetery as a whole, may qualify for exemption.
Care of individual plots. When funds are
received by a cemetery company for the perpetual care of an individual lot or crypt, a trust is
created that is subject to federal income tax.
Any trust income that is used or permanently
set aside for the care, maintenance, or beautification of a particular family burial lot or mausoleum crypt isn't deductible in computing the
trust's taxable income.

2. To buy cemetery property.
Chapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

55

Common and preferred stock. A cemetery
company that issues common stock can qualify
for exemption only if no dividends may be paid.
The payment of dividends must be legally prohibited either by the corporation's charter or by
applicable state law.
Generally, a cemetery company or crematorium isn't exempt if it issues preferred stock.
However, it can still be exempt if the preferred
stock was issued before November 28, 1978, or
was issued after that date under a written plan
adopted before that date. The adoption of the
plan must be shown by the acts of the responsible officers and appear on the official records of
the organization.
The preferred stock issued either before November 28, 1978, or under a plan adopted before that date, must meet all the following requirements.
1. The preferred stock entitles the holders to
dividends at a fixed rate that isn't more
than the greater of the legal rate of interest
in the state of incorporation or 8% a year
on the value of the consideration for which
the stock was issued.
2. The organization's articles of incorporation
require:
a. That the preferred stock be retired at
par as rapidly as funds become available from operations, and
b. That all funds not required for the payment of dividends on or for the retirement of preferred stock be used by
the company for the care and improvement of the cemetery property.
Tax treatment of donations. Donations to exempt cemetery companies, corporations chartered solely for human burial purposes, and perpetual care funds (operated in connection with
such exempt organizations) are deductible as
charitable contributions on the donor's federal
income tax return. However, a donor can't deduct a contribution made for the perpetual care
of a particular lot or crypt. Payments made to a
cemetery company or corporation as part of the
purchase price of a burial lot or crypt, whether
irrevocably dedicated to the perpetual care of
the cemetery as a whole or earmarked for the
care of a particular lot, are also not deductible.

501(c)(14) - Credit
Unions and Other Mutual
Financial Organizations
If your organization wants to obtain recognition
of exemption as a credit union without capital
stock, organized and operated under state law
for mutual purposes and without profit, it must
file the application for recognition of exemption
on Form 1024.

State-chartered credit unions and other mutual financial organizations file applications for
recognition of exemption from federal income
tax under section 501(c)(14). The other mutual
financial organizations must be corporations or
associations without capital stock organized before September 1, 1957, and operated for mutual purposes and without profit to provide reserve funds for, and insurance of, shares or
deposits in:
1. Domestic building and loan associations,
2. Cooperative banks (without capital stock)
organized and operated for mutual purposes and without profit,
3. Mutual savings banks (not having capital
stock represented by shares), or
4. Mutual savings banks described in section
591(b).
Similar organizations, formed before September
1, 1957, that provide reserve funds for (but not
insurance of shares or deposits in) one of the
types of savings institutions described in (1),
(2), or (3) above may be exempt from tax if 85%
or more of the organization's income is from
providing reserve funds and from investments.
There is no specific restriction against the issuance of capital stock for these
organizations.
Building and loan associations, savings and
loan associations, mutual savings banks, and
cooperative banks, other than those described
in this section, aren't exempt from tax. However,
certain corporations organized and operated in
conjunction with farmers' cooperatives can be
exempt under section 521.

State-Chartered
Credit Unions
Your organization must show on its application
that it is formed under a state credit union law,
the state and date of incorporation, and that the
state credit union law with respect to loans, investments, and dividends, if any, your organization is operated in compliance with.

Other Mutual
Financial Organizations
Every other organization included in this section
must show in its application the state in which
the organization is incorporated and the date of
incorporation; the character of the organization;
the purpose for which it was organized; its actual activities; the sources of its receipts and the
disposition thereof; whether any of its income
may be credited to surplus or may benefit any
private shareholder or individual; whether the
law relating to loans, investments, and dividends is being complied with; and, in general,
all facts relating to its operations that affect its
right to exemption.

Federal credit unions organized and operated in accordance with the Federal Credit Union Act, as amended, are instrumentalities of
the United States and, therefore, are exempt
under section 501(c)(1). They are included in a
group exemption letter issued to the National
Credit Union Administration. They aren't
discussed in this publication.

The application must include detailed information showing either that the organization provides both reserve funds for and insurance of
shares and deposits of its member financial organizations or that the organization provides reserve funds for shares or deposits of its members and 85% or more of the organization's

56

Chapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

income is from providing reserve funds and
from investments. There should be attached a
conformed copy of the articles of incorporation
or other document setting forth the permitted
powers or activities of the organization; the bylaws or other similar code of regulations; and
the latest annual financial statement showing
the receipts, disbursements, assets, and liabilities of the organization.

501(c)(19) - Veterans'
Organizations
A post or organization of past or present members of the Armed Forces of the United States
must file Form 1024 to apply for recognition of
exemption from federal income tax. You should
follow the general procedures outlined in chapter 1. The organization must also meet the qualifications described in this section.
Examples of groups that qualify for exemption are posts or auxiliaries of the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and similar organizations.
To qualify for recognition of exemption, your
application should show:
1. That the post or organization is organized
in the United States or any of its possessions;
2. That at least 75% of the members are past
or present members of the U.S. Armed
Forces and that at least 97.5% of all members of the organization are past or
present members of the U.S. Armed
Forces, cadets (including only students in
college or university ROTC programs or at
armed services academies) or spouses,
widows, widowers, ancestors, or lineal descendants of any of those listed here; and
3. That no part of net earnings inure to the
benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.
In addition to these requirements, a veterans' organization must also be operated exclusively for one or more of the following purposes.
1. To promote the social welfare of the community (that is, to promote in some way the
common good and general welfare of the
people of the community).
2. To assist disabled and needy war veterans
and members of the U.S. Armed Forces
and their dependents and the widows and
orphans of deceased veterans.
3. To provide entertainment, care, and assistance to hospitalized veterans or members
of the U.S. Armed Forces.
4. To carry on programs to perpetuate the
memory of deceased veterans and members of the U.S. Armed Forces and to
comfort their survivors.
5. To conduct programs for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes.
6. To sponsor or participate in activities of a
patriotic nature.
Publication 557 (1-2025)

7. To provide insurance benefits for its members or dependents of its members or
both.
8. To provide social and recreational activities for its members.
Auxiliary unit. An auxiliary unit or society of a
veterans' organization can apply for recognition
of exemption provided that the veterans' organization (parent organization) meets the requirements explained earlier in this section. The auxiliary unit or society must also meet all the
following additional requirements.
1. It is affiliated with, and organized in accordance with, the bylaws and regulations
formulated by the parent organization.
2. At least 75% of its members are either
past or present members of the U.S.
Armed Forces, spouses of those members, or related to those members within
two degrees of kinship (grandparent,
brother, sister, and grandchild represent
the most distant allowable relationship).
3. All of its members either are members of
the parent organization, spouses of a
member of the parent organization, or related to a member of such organization
within two degrees of kinship.
4. No part of its net earnings inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual.
Trusts or foundations. Trusts or foundations
for a veterans' organization can also apply for
recognition of exemption provided that the parent organization meets the requirements explained earlier. The trust or foundation must
also meet all the following qualifications.
1. The trust or foundation is in existence under local law and, if it is organized for charitable purposes, has a dissolution provision similar to charitable organizations.
(See Articles of Organization in chapter 3
of this publication.)
2. The corpus or income can't be diverted or
used other than for:
a. The funding of a veterans' organization, described in this section;
b. Religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals; or
c. An insurance set aside.
3. The trust income isn't unreasonably accumulated and, if the trust or foundation isn't
an insurance set aside, a substantial portion of the income is in fact distributed to
the parent organization or for the purposes
described in item 2(b).
4. It is organized exclusively for one or more
of the purposes listed earlier in this section
that are specifically applicable to the parent organization.
Tax treatment of donations. Donations to war
veterans' organizations are deductible as charitable contributions on the donor's federal income tax return. At least 90% of the organization's membership must consist of war veterans.
Publication 557 (1-2025)

The term war veterans means persons, whether
or not present members of the U.S. Armed
Forces, who have served in the U.S. Armed
Forces during a period of war (including the Korean and Vietnam conflicts, the Persian Gulf
war, and later declared wars).

501(c)(21) - Black Lung
Benefit Trusts
If your organization wishes to obtain recognition
of exemption as a black lung benefit trust, it
must file the application for recognition of exemption on Form 1024 and include a copy of its
trust instrument. The general procedures to follow for obtaining recognition are discussed in
chapter 1 of this publication. This section describes the additional (or specific) information to
be provided upon application.
Requirements. A black lung benefit trust that
is established in writing, created or organized in
the United States, and contributed to by any
person (except an insurance company) will
qualify for tax-exempt status if it meets both of
the following requirements. The trust must be irrevocable and there can be no right or possibility or reversion of the corpus or income of the
trust to the coal mine operator or other creator,
except that the creator may recover excess contributions.
1. Its only purpose is:
a. To satisfy in whole or in part the liability of that person (generally, the coal
mine operator contributing to the trust)
for, or with respect to, claims for compensation arising under federal or
state statutes for disability or death
due to pneumoconiosis,
b. To pay the premiums for insurance
that covers only that liability,
c. To pay the administrative and other incidental expenses of that trust (including legal, accounting, actuarial, and
trustee expenses) in connection with
the operation of the trust and processing of black lung claims against such
person arising under federal or state
statutes, and
d. To pay accident and health benefits or
insurance premiums and other administrative expenses for retired coal miners and their spouses. The amount of
assets available for such use is generally limited to 110% of the present
value of the liability for black lung
benefits.
2. No part of its assets can be used for, or diverted to, any purposes other than:
a. The purposes described in 1,
b. Payments into the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund or into the general fund
of the U.S. Treasury (other than in satisfaction of any tax or other civil or
criminal liability of the person who established or contributed to the trust),
c. Investment in public debt securities of
the U.S., obligations of a state or local
Chapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

government that aren't in default as to
principal or interest, or time or demand deposits in a bank or an insured
credit union located in the United
States. (These investments are restricted to the extent that the trustee
determines that a portion of the assets isn't currently needed for the purposes described in 1.)
An annual information return is required of exempt trusts described in section 501(c)(21).
Formerly, Form 990-BL, Information and Initial
Excise Tax Return for Black Lung Benefit Trusts
and Certain Related Persons, was used for this
purpose However, Form 990-BL is a historical
form beginning with tax year 2021. Section
501(c)(21) trusts can no longer file Form
990-BL and will file Form 990 to meet their annual filing obligation. A trust that normally has
gross receipts in each tax year of no more than
$50,000 is excepted from this filing requirement.
However, it must submit an annual electronic
notice, Form 990-N (e-Postcard).
Excise taxes. See Chapter 5 for information on the excise tax that may be imposed on
the organization.
Tax treatment of donations. Contributions by
a taxpayer (generally, the coal mine operator) to
a black lung benefit trust are deductible for federal income tax purposes under section 192.
The deduction is limited, and any excess contributions are subject to an excise tax of 5%. Form
6069, Return of Certain Excise Taxes on Mine
Operators, Black Lung Trusts, and Other Persons Under Sections 4951, 4952, and 4953, is
used to compute the allowable deduction and
any excise tax liability. The form doesn't have to
be filed if there is no excise tax liability. For more
information about these contributions, see Form
6069 and its instructions.

501(c)(2) - Title-Holding
Corporations for Single
Parent Corporations
If your organization wants to obtain recognition
of exemption from federal income tax as a corporation organized to hold title to property, collect income from that property, and turn over the
entire amount less expenses to a single parent
organization that is exempt from income tax, it
must file its application on Form 1024. The information to submit upon application is described in this section. For a discussion of the procedures for obtaining recognition of exemption,
see chapter 1, Application Procedures.
You must show that your organization is a
corporation. If you are in doubt as to whether
your organization qualifies as a corporation for
this purpose, contact your IRS office.
A title-holding corporation will qualify for exemption only if there is effective ownership and
control over it by the distributee exempt organization. For example, the distributee organization
may control the title-holding corporation by owning its voting stock or possessing the power to
select nominees to hold its voting stock.
57

Corporate charter. The corporate charter
must confine the purposes and powers of your
organization to holding title to property, collecting income from the property, and turning the income over to an exempt organization. If the
charter authorizes your organization to engage
in activities that go beyond these limits, its exemption may not be recognized even if its actual operations are so limited. If your organization's original charter doesn't limit its powers,
you can amend the charter to conform to the required limits and submit evidence with your application that the charter has been amended.
Payment of income. You must show that your
corporation is required to turn over the entire income from the property, less expenses, to one
or more exempt organizations.
Actual payment of the income is required. A
mere obligation to use the income for the exempt organization's benefit, or the fact that such
organization has control over the income,
doesn't satisfy this requirement.
Expenses. Expenses may reduce the
amount of income required to be turned over to
the tax-exempt organization for which your organization holds property. The term expenses
(for this purpose) includes not only ordinary and
necessary expenses paid or incurred, but also
reasonable additions to depreciation reserves
and other reserves that would be proper for a
business corporation holding title to and maintaining property.
In addition, the title-holding corporation can
retain part of its income each year to apply to
debt on property to which it holds title. This
transaction is treated as if the income had been
turned over to the exempt organization and the
latter had used the income to make a contribution to the capital of the title-holding corporation
that in turn applied the contribution to the debt.
Waiver of payment of income. Generally,
there is no payment of rent when the occupant
of property held by your title-holding corporation
is the exempt organization for which your corporation holds the title. In this situation, the statutory requirement that income be paid over to the
exempt organization is satisfied if your corporation turns over whatever income is available.
Application for recognition of exemption. In
addition to the information required by Form
1024, the title-holding corporation must furnish
evidence that the organization for which title is
held has obtained recognition of exempt status.
If that organization has not been specifically notified in writing by the IRS that it is exempt, the
title-holding corporation must submit the necessary application and supporting documents to
enable the IRS to determine whether the organization for which title is held qualifies for exemption. A copy of a ruling or determination letter issued to the organization for which title is held
will be proof that it qualifies for exemption. However, until the organization for which title is held
obtains recognition of exempt status or proof is
submitted to show that it qualifies, the title-holding corporation can't obtain recognition of exemption.

deductible as charitable contributions on the
donor's federal income tax return.

501(c)(25) - Title-Holding
Corporations or Trusts
for Multiple Parent
Corporations
If your organization wants to obtain recognition
of exemption from federal income tax as an organization organized for the exclusive purpose
of acquiring, holding title to, and collecting income from real property, and turning over the
entire amount less expenses to member organizations exempt from income tax, it should file its
application on Form 1024. For a discussion of
the procedures for obtaining recognition of exemption, see chapter 1, Application Procedures.
Who can control the organization. Organizations recognized as exempt under this section
can have up to 35 shareholders or beneficiaries,
in contrast to title-holding organizations recognized as exempt under section 501(c)(2), which
can have only one controlling parent organization.
Organizational
requirements. A section
501(c)(25) organization must be either a corporation or a trust. Only one class of stock is permitted in the case of a corporation. In the case
of a trust, only one class of beneficial interest is
allowed.
Organizations eligible to acquire or hold interests in this type of title-holding organization
are qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock
bonus plans, governmental plans, governments
and their agencies and instrumentalities, and
charitable organizations.
The articles of incorporation or trust instrument must include provisions showing that the
corporation or trust is organized to meet the requirements of the statute, including compliance
with the limitations on membership and classes
of stock or beneficial interest, and compliance
with the income distribution requirements. The
organizing document must permit the organization's shareholders or beneficiaries to dismiss
the organization's investment advisor, if any,
upon a vote of the shareholders or beneficiaries
holding a majority interest in the organization.
The organizing document must permit the
shareholders or beneficiaries to terminate their
interests by at least one of the following methods.
1. By selling or exchanging their stock or
beneficial interest to any organization described in section 501(c)(25)(C), provided
that the sale or exchange doesn't cause
the number of shareholders or beneficiaries to exceed 35.
2. By having their stock or beneficial interest
redeemed by the section 501(c)(25) organization upon 90 days notice.

Tax treatment of donations. Donations to an
exempt title-holding corporation generally aren't

If state law prevents a corporation from including in its articles of incorporation the above provisions, such provisions must instead be included in the bylaws of the corporation.

58

Chapter 4

Other Section 501(c) Organizations

A 501(c)(25) organization can be organized
as a nonstock corporation if its articles of incorporation or bylaws provide members with the
same rights as described above.
Subsidiaries. A wholly owned subsidiary won't
be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets, liabilities, and items of income, deduction,
and credit will be treated as belonging to the
section 501(c)(25) organization. Subsidiaries
shouldn't apply separately for recognition of exemption.
Tax treatment of donations. Donations to an
exempt title-holding corporation generally aren't
deductible as charitable contributions on the
donor's federal income tax return.

Unrelated Business Income
In general, the receipt of unrelated business income by a section 501(c)(25) organization will
subject the organization to loss of exempt status
since the organization can't be exempt from taxation if it engages in any business other than
that of holding title to real property and collecting the income from the property. However, exempt status generally won't be affected by the
receipt of debt-financed income that is treated
as unrelated business taxable income solely
because of section 514.
Under section 514(c)(9), certain shareholders or beneficiaries aren't subject to unrelated
debt-financed income tax under section 514 on
their investments through the organization.
These shareholders are generally schools, colleges, universities, or supporting organizations
of such educational institutions. Organizations
other than these will take into account as gross
income from an unrelated trade or business
their pro rata share of income that is treated as
unrelated debt-financed income because section 514(c)(9) doesn't apply. These organizations will also take their pro rata share of the allowable deductions from unrelated taxable
income.
Real property. Real property can include personal property leased in connection with real
property, but only if the rent from the personal
property isn't more than 15% of the total rent for
both the real property and the personal property.
Real property acquired after June 10, 1987,
can't include any interest as a tenant in common (or similar interest) or any indirect interest.

501(c)(26) State-Sponsored
High-Risk Health
Coverage Organizations
A state-sponsored organization established to
provide medical care to high-risk individuals applies on Form 1024 for recognition of exemption
from federal income tax under section 501(c)
(26).
To qualify for exemption, the organization
must be a membership organization established
Publication 557 (1-2025)

by a state exclusively to provide coverage for
medical care on a nonprofit basis to high-risk individuals who are state residents. It can provide
coverage either by issuing insurance itself or by
entering into an arrangement with a health
maintenance organization (HMO).
The state must determine the composition of
membership in the organization. No part of the
net earnings of the organization can inure to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
High-risk individuals. These are individuals,
their spouses, and qualifying children, who, because of a pre-existing medical condition:
1. Can't get medical care coverage for that
condition through insurance or an HMO, or
2. Can get coverage for that condition only at
a rate that is substantially higher than the
rate for the same coverage from the
state-sponsored organization.

501(c)(27) - Qualified
State-Sponsored
Workers' Compensation
Organizations
501(c)(27)(A) -- Pre-June 1, 1996, Organizations. A state-sponsored workers' compensation reinsurance organization applies on Form
1024 for recognition of exemption from federal
income tax under section 501(c)(27).
To qualify for exemption, any membership
organization must meet all the following requirements.
1. It was established by a state before June
1, 1996, exclusively to reimburse its members for losses under workers' compensation acts.
2. The state requires that the membership
consist of all persons who issue insurance
covering workers' compensation losses in
the state and all persons and government
entities who self-insure against those losses.
3. It operates as a nonprofit organization by
returning surplus income to its members or
workers' compensation policyholders on a
periodic basis and by reducing initial premiums in anticipation of investment income.
501(c)(27)(B) -- Organizations formed after
December 31, 1997. Any organization (including a mutual insurance company) can qualify for
exemption if it meets all of the following requirements.
1. It is created by state law and is organized
and operated under state law exclusively
to:
a. Provide workmen's compensation insurance which is required by state law
or state law must provide significant
disincentives if employers fail to purchase such insurance, and

Publication 557 (1-2025)

b. Provide related coverage which is incidental to workmen's compensation
insurance.
2. It provides workmen's compensation insurance to any employer in the state (for
employees in the state or temporarily assigned out-of-state) which seeks such insurance and meets other reasonable requirements relating to the insurance.
3. The state makes a financial commitment
to such organization either by extending its
full faith and credit to the initial debt of the
organization or by providing the initial operating capital of the organization.
4. The assets of the organization revert to the
state upon dissolution or the organization
isn't permitted to dissolve under state law.
5. The majority of the board of directors or
oversight body of such organization are
appointed by the chief executive officer or
other executive branch official of the state,
by the state legislature, or by both.

501(c)(29) - CO-OP
Health Insurance Issuers
This includes a qualified nonprofit health insurance issuer which has received a loan or grant
under the CO-OP Program under this section of
the Code.

Guidance for Section
501(c)(29) Qualified
Nonprofit Health
Insurance Issuers
Section 501(c)(29), added to the Code by section 1322(h)(1) of the Affordable Care Act, provides for the exemption of qualified nonprofit
health insurance issuers (QNHIIs) that have received a loan or grant under the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS)
CO-OP program for periods that they meet both
the requirements of section 1322 of the Affordable Care Act and of any loan agreement with
CMS. The CO-OP program provides loans and
repayable grants to foster the creation of member governed QNHIIs that will operate with a
strong consumer focus and offer qualified
health insurance plans. Notice 2011-23,
2011-13 I.R.B. 588, discussed requirements for
tax exemption for QNHIIs described in Internal
Revenue Code section 501(c)(29). The Notice
provides guidance on the annual filing requirement for organizations that intend to apply for
recognition of section 501(c)(29) status and
modified and superseded by Rev. Proc. 2022-8.
Under Rev. Proc. 2022-8, an organization applying for recognition of exemption from federal
income tax under section 501(c)(29) applies on
Form 1024. Rev. Proc. 2015-17, 2015-7 I.R.B.
599, sets out the procedures for issuing determination letters on the exempt status of QNHIIs
and provides guidance on the effective date of
exempt status. Rev. Proc. 2015-17, supplemented by current year issued revenue procedures
also apply to exemptions from federal income
Chapter 5

Excise Taxes

tax under section 501(c)(29) applies on Form
1024.

General Requirements
for Exemption under
501(c)(29) and Annual
Filing Requirement
In general, section 501(c)(29) applies to certain
organizations receiving loans or repayable
grants under the CO-OP program. An organization will qualify for exemption under section
501(c)(29) only if:
• The organization has received a loan or a
repayable grant under the CO-OP program
and is in compliance with all requirements
of the CO-OP program and any agreement
with CMS;
• The organization has applied for recognition of exemption;
• No part of the organization’s net earnings
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, except that the organization is required by section 1322(c)(4) of
the Affordable Care Act to use its profits to
lower premiums, improve benefits or improve the quality of health care delivered to
its members;
• No substantial part of the organization’s
activities involves attempts to influence
legislation; and
• The organization doesn't participate or intervene in political campaigns. See Rev.
Proc. 2015-17 for complete instructions for
filing exemption applications.

Additional Guidance for
Prospective 501(c)(29)
Organizations
An organization claiming exempt status under
section 501(c)(29) that intends to file an application for recognition of exemption should begin
by filing Form 990, Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax, and indicate on its return that it has not yet received a determination
letter. In addition to the general information required on Form 990, these organizations must
report certain information regarding required reserves.

5.
Excise Taxes
Introduction
An excise tax may be imposed on certain
tax-exempt organizations.
59

Topics

other organizations described in section 501(c)(6);

This chapter discusses:

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Prohibited tax shelter transactions
Excess benefit transactions
Excess business holdings
Taxable distributions of sponsoring
organizations
Taxes on prohibited benefits distributed
from donor advised funds
Excise taxes on private foundations
Excise taxes on section 501(c)(21) black
lung benefit trusts
Excise Tax on Failure To Meet the
Community Health Needs Assessment
Requirements of Hospitals
Excise tax on excess tax-exempt
organization executive compensation
Excise tax on net investment income of
private colleges and universities

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Forms (and Instructions)
4720 Return of Certain Excise Taxes
Under Chapters 41 and 42 of the
Internal Revenue Code
4720

See chapter 6 for more information about getting Form 4720.

Prohibited Tax Shelter
Transactions
Section 4965 imposes an excise tax on:
• Certain tax-exempt entities that are party to
prohibited tax shelter transactions, and
• Any entity manager who approves or otherwise causes the entity to be a party to a
prohibited tax shelter transaction and
knows or has reason to know that the
transaction is a prohibited tax shelter transaction.
Additionally, section 6033 provides new disclosure requirements on a tax-exempt entity that is
a party to a prohibited tax shelter transaction.
Tax-exempt entities. Tax-exempt entities that
are subject to section 4965 include:
1. Entities described in section 501(c), including but not limited to the following
common types of entities:

60

a.

Instrumentalities of the United
States described in section 501(c)(1);

b.

Churches, hospitals, museums,
schools, scientific research organizations, and other charities described in
section 501(c)(3);

c.

Civic leagues, social welfare organizations, and local associations of employees described in section 501(c)
(4);

d.

Labor, agricultural, or horticultural
organizations described in section
501(c)(5);

e.

Business leagues, chambers of
commerce, trade associations, and

f.

Voluntary employees' beneficiary
associations (VEBAs) described in
section 501(c)(9);

g.

Credit unions described in section
501(c)(14);

h.

Insurance companies described in
section 501(c)(15); and

i.

Veterans' organizations described
in section 501(c)(19).

2. Religious or apostolic associations or corporations described in section 501(d).
3. Entities described in section 170(c), including states, possessions of the United
States, the District of Columbia, political
subdivisions of states and political subdivisions of possessions of the United States
(but not including the United States).
4. Indian tribal governments within the meaning of section 7701(a)(40).
Entity manager. An entity manager is any person with authority or responsibility similar to that
exercised by an officer, director, or trustee, and,
for any act, the person that has authority or responsibility with respect to the prohibited transaction.
Prohibited tax shelter transaction. A prohibited tax shelter transaction is any listed
transaction, within the meaning of section
6707A(c)(2), and any prohibited reportable
transactions. A prohibited reportable transaction is a confidential transaction within the
meaning of Regulations section 1.6011-4(b)(3),
and a transaction with contractual protection
within the meaning of Regulations section
1.6011-4(b)(4). See the Instructions for Form
8886-T for more information on listed transactions and prohibited reportable transactions.
Subsequently listed transaction. Any transaction to which the tax-exempt entity is a party
and is later determined to be a listed transaction
after the entity has become a party to it, is a
subsequently listed transaction.

Entity Level Tax
Section 4965(a)(1) imposes an entity level excise tax on any tax-exempt entity described in 1,
2, 3, or 4 above that becomes a party to a prohibited tax shelter transaction or is a party to a
subsequently listed transaction (defined earlier). The excise tax imposed on a tax-exempt
entity applies to tax years in which the entity becomes a party to the prohibited tax shelter
transaction and any subsequent tax years. The
amount of the excise tax depends on whether
the tax-exempt entity knew or had reason to
know that the transaction was a prohibited tax
shelter transaction at the time it became a party
to the transaction.
To figure and report the excise tax imposed
on a tax-exempt entity for being a party to a prohibited tax shelter transaction, file Form 4720.
For more information about this excise tax,
including information about how it is figured,
see the Instructions for Form 4720.
Chapter 5

Excise Taxes

Manager Level Tax
Section 4965(a)(2) imposes an excise tax on
any tax-exempt entity manager who approves
or otherwise causes the entity to be a party to a
prohibited tax shelter transaction and knows (or
has reason to know) that the transaction is a
prohibited tax shelter transaction. The excise
tax, in the amount of $20,000, is assessed for
each approval or other act causing the organization to be a party to the prohibited tax shelter
transaction. To report this tax, file Form 4720.

Excess Benefit
Transactions
Excise tax on excess benefit transactions.
A disqualified person who benefits from an excess benefit transaction, such as compensation, fringe benefits, or contract payments from
certain section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), or 501(c)
(29) organizations, must correct the transaction
and may have to pay an excise tax under section 4958. A manager of the organization may
also have to pay an excise tax under section
4958. These taxes are reported on Form 4720.
The excise taxes are imposed if an applicable tax-exempt organization provides an excess
benefit to a disqualified person and that benefit
exceeds the value of the benefit received in exchange.
There are three taxes under section 4958.
Disqualified persons are liable for the first two
taxes and certain organization managers are liable for the third tax.
Taxes imposed on excess benefit transactions don't apply to a transaction under a written
contract that was binding on September 13,
1995, and at all times thereafter before the
transaction occurred.

Tax on Disqualified Persons
An excise tax equal to 25% of the excess benefit is imposed on each excess benefit transaction between an applicable tax-exempt organization and a disqualified person. The
disqualified person who benefited from the
transaction is liable for the tax. See definition of
disqualified person, later at Disqualified person.
Additional tax on the disqualified person. If
the 25% tax is imposed and the excess benefit
transaction isn't corrected within the taxable period, an additional excise tax equal to 200% of
the excess benefit is imposed on any disqualified person involved.
If a disqualified person makes a payment of
less than the full correction amount, the 200%
tax is imposed only on the unpaid portion of the
correction amount. If more than one disqualified
person received an excess benefit from an excess benefit transaction, all such disqualified
persons are jointly and severally liable for the
taxes.
To avoid the 200% tax, a disqualified person
must correct the excess benefit transaction during the taxable period. The 200% tax is abated
(refunded if collected) if the excess benefit

Publication 557 (1-2025)

transaction is corrected within a 90-day correction period beginning on the date a statutory notice of deficiency is issued.
Taxable period. The taxable period means
the period beginning with the date on which the
excess benefit transaction occurs and ending
on the earlier of:
• The date a notice of deficiency was mailed
to the disqualified person for the initial tax
on the excess benefit transaction, or
• The date on which the initial tax on the excess benefit transaction for the disqualified
person is assessed.

Tax on Organization
Managers
If tax is imposed on a disqualified person for
any excess benefit transaction, an excise tax
equal to 10% of the excess benefit is imposed
on an organization manager who knowingly participated in an excess benefit transaction, unless such participation wasn't willful and was
due to reasonable cause. This tax can't exceed
$20,000 ($10,000 for transactions entered in a
tax year beginning before August 18, 2006), for
each transaction. There is also joint and several
liability for this tax. A person can be liable for
both the tax paid by the disqualified person and
the organization manager tax for a particular excess benefit transaction.
Organization manager. An organization manager is any officer, director, or trustee of an applicable tax-exempt organization, or any individual having powers or responsibilities similar to
officers, directors, or trustees of the organization, regardless of title. An organization manager isn't considered to have participated in an
excess benefit transaction where the manager
has opposed the transaction in a manner consistent with the fulfillment of the manager's responsibilities to the organization. For example,
a director who votes against giving an excess
benefit would ordinarily not be subject to the
10% tax.
A person participates in a transaction knowingly if the person:
• Has actual knowledge of sufficient facts so
that, based solely upon those facts, such
transaction would be an excess benefit
transaction;
• Is aware that such a transaction under
these circumstances may violate the provisions of federal tax law governing excess
benefit transactions; and
• Negligently fails to make reasonable attempts to ascertain whether the transaction is an excess benefit transaction, or the
manager is in fact aware that it is such a
transaction.
Knowing doesn't mean having reason to know.
The organization manager ordinarily won't be
considered knowing if, after full disclosure of the
factual situation to an appropriate professional,
the organization manager relied on the professional's reasoned written opinion on matters
within the professional's expertise or if the manager relied on the fact that the requirements for
the rebuttable presumption of reasonableness
have been satisfied. Participation by an organization manager is willful if it is voluntary,
Publication 557 (1-2025)

conscious, and intentional. An organization
manager's participation is due to reasonable
cause if the manager has exercised responsibility on behalf of the organization with ordinary
business care and prudence.

Excess Benefit Transaction
An excess benefit transaction is a transaction in
which an economic benefit is provided by an
applicable tax-exempt organization, directly or
indirectly, to or for the use of any disqualified
person, and the value of the economic benefit
provided by the organization exceeds the value
of the consideration (including the performance
of services) received for providing such benefit.
The excess benefit transaction rules apply to all
transactions with disqualified persons, regardless of whether the amount of the benefit provided is determined in whole or in part by the revenues of one or more activities of the
organization.
To determine whether an excess benefit
transaction has occurred, all consideration and
benefits exchanged between a disqualified person and the applicable tax-exempt organization,
and all entities it controls, are taken into account. For purposes of determining the value of
economic benefits, the value of property, including the right to use property, is the fair market
value. Fair market value is the price at which
property, or the right to use property, would
change hands between a willing buyer and a
willing seller, neither being under any compulsion to buy, sell, or transfer property or the right
to use property, and both having reasonable
knowledge of relevant facts.
Donor advised fund transactions occurring
after August 17, 2006. For a donor advised
fund, an excess benefit transaction includes a
grant, loan, compensation, or other similar payment from the fund to a:
• Donor or donor advisor;
• Family member of a donor, or donor advisor;
• 35% controlled entity of a donor, or donor
advisor; or
• 35% controlled entity of a family member
of a donor, or donor advisor.
The excess benefit in this transaction is the
amount of the grant, loan, compensation, or
other similar payment. For additional information, see the Instructions for Form 4720.
Supporting organization transactions occurring after July 25, 2006. For any supporting organization, defined in section 509(a)(3),
an excess benefit transaction includes grants,
loans, compensation, or other similar payment
provided by the supporting organization to a:
• Substantial contributor,
• Family member of a substantial contributor,
• 35% controlled entity of a substantial contributor, or
• 35% controlled entity of a family member
of a substantial contributor.
Additionally, an excess benefit transaction
includes any loans provided by the supporting
organization to a disqualified person (other than
an organization described in section 509(a)(1),
(2), or (4)).
Chapter 5

Excise Taxes

The excess benefit for substantial contributors and parties related to those contributors includes the amount of the grant, loan, compensation, or other similar payment. For additional
information, see the Instructions for Form 4720.
Excess benefit transaction rules generally
don't apply to transactions between a supporting organization and its supported organization
described in section 501(c)(4), (5), or (6) in furtherance of charitable purposes.

Date of Occurrence
An excess benefit transaction occurs on the
date the disqualified person receives the economic benefit from the organization for federal
income tax purposes. However, when a single
contractual arrangement provides for a series of
compensation or other payments to or for the
use of a disqualified person during the disqualified person's tax year, any excess benefit transaction with respect to these payments occurs
on the last day of the taxpayer's tax year.
In the case of benefits provided to a qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus
plan, the transaction occurs on the date the
benefit is vested. In the case of the transfer of
property subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, or in the case of rights to future compensation or property, the transaction occurs on the
date the property, or the rights to future compensation or property, isn't subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture. Where the disqualified person elects to include an amount in gross
income in the tax year of transfer under section
83(b), the excess benefit transaction occurs on
the date the disqualified person receives the
economic benefit for federal income tax purposes.
Correcting the excess benefit. An excess
benefit transaction is corrected by undoing the
excess benefit to the extent possible, and by
taking any additional measures necessary to
place the organization in a financial position not
worse than what it would have been if the disqualified person were dealing under the highest
fiduciary standards.
A disqualified person corrects an excess
benefit by making a payment in cash or cash
equivalents, excluding payment by a promissory
note, equal to the correction amount to the applicable tax-exempt organization. The correction amount equals the excess benefit plus the
interest on the excess benefit. The interest rate
can be no lower than the applicable federal rate,
compounded annually, for the month the transaction occurred.
A disqualified person can, with the agreement of the applicable tax-exempt organization,
make a payment by returning the specific property previously transferred in the excess transaction. In this case, the disqualified person is
treated as making a payment equal to the lesser
of:
• The fair market value of the property on the
date the property is returned to the organization, or
• The fair market value of the property on the
date the excess benefit transaction occurred.

61

If the payment resulting from the return of
property is less than the correction amount, the
disqualified person must make an additional
cash payment to the organization equal to the
difference.
If the payment resulting from the return of
the property exceeds the correction amount described above, the organization can make a
cash payment to the disqualified person equal
to the difference.
Exception. For a correction of an excess
benefit transaction (discussed earlier), no
amount repaid in a manner prescribed by the
Secretary can be held in a donor advised fund.

Applicable Tax-Exempt
Organization
An applicable tax-exempt organization is a section 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), or 501(c)(29) organization that is tax-exempt under section 501(a),
or was such an organization at any time during
a 5-year period ending on the day of the excess
benefit transaction.
An applicable
doesn't include:

tax-exempt

organization

1. A private foundation as defined in section
509(a),
2. A governmental entity that is:
a. Exempt from (or not subject to) taxation without regard to section 501(a),
or
b. Not required to file an annual return,
or

• Disqualified persons of a section 509(a)(3)
supporting organization that supports the
applicable tax-exempt organization.

For certain supporting organization
transactions occurring after July 25, 2006.
Substantial contributors to supporting organizations will also be considered disqualified persons with respect to the supporting organizations, along with their family members and 35%
controlled entities.
Investment advisor. Investment advisor
means for any sponsoring organization, any
person compensated by such organization (but
not an employee of such organization) for managing the investment of, or providing investment
advice for, assets maintained in donor advised
funds owned by such sponsoring organization.
Substantial contributor. In general, a substantial contributor means any person who contributed or bequeathed an aggregate of more
than $5,000 to the organization, if that amount
is more than 2% of the total contributions and
bequests received by the end of the organization's tax year in which the contribution or bequest is received. A substantial contributor includes the grantor of a trust.
Family members. Family members of a disqualified person include a disqualified person's
spouse, brothers or sisters (whether by whole
or half-blood), spouses of brothers or sisters
(whether by whole or half-blood), ancestors,
children (including a legally adopted child),
grandchildren, great grandchildren, and spouses of children, grandchildren, and great grandchildren (whether by whole or half-blood).

3. A foreign organization, recognized by the
IRS or by treaty, that receives substantially
all of its support (other than gross investment income) from sources outside the
United States.

35% controlled entity. A 35% controlled entity
is:

An organization isn't treated as a section
501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), or 501(c)(29) organization
for any period covered by a final determination
that the organization wasn't tax-exempt under
section 501(a), but only if the determination
wasn't based on private inurement or one or
more excess benefit transactions.

2. A partnership in which such persons own
more than 35% of the profits interest, or

Disqualified Person
A disqualified person is:
• Any person (at any time during the 5-year
period ending on the date of the transaction) in a position to exercise substantial influence over the affairs of the organization,
• A family member of an individual described
in (1), and
• A 35% controlled entity.
For donor advised funds, sponsoring organizations, and certain supporting organizations occurring after August 17, 2006.
The following persons will be considered disqualified persons along with certain family
members and 35% controlled entities associated with them.
• Donors of donor advised funds,
• Investment advisors of sponsoring organizations, and
62

1. A corporation in which disqualified persons own more than 35% of the total combined voting power,

3. A trust or estate in which such persons
own more than 35% of the beneficial interest.
In determining the holdings of a business
enterprise, any stock or other interest owned directly or indirectly shall apply.
Persons having substantial influence.
Among those who are in a position to exercise
substantial influence over the affairs of the organization are, for example, voting members of
the governing body, and persons holding the
power of:
• Presidents, chief executives, or chief operating officers;
• Treasurers and chief financial officers; or
• Persons with a material financial interest in
a provider-sponsored organization.
Persons not considered to have substantial influence. Persons who aren't considered to be in a position to exercise substantial
influence over the affairs of an organization include:
• An employee who receives benefits that total less than the highly compensated
amount in section 414(q)(1)(B)(i) and who
Chapter 5

Excise Taxes

doesn't hold the executive or voting powers
mentioned earlier in the discussion on Disqualified Person, isn't a family member of a
disqualified person, and isn't a substantial
contributor;
• Tax-exempt organizations described in
section 501(c)(3); and
• Section 501(c)(4) organizations with respect to transactions engaged in with other
section 501(c)(4) organizations.
Facts and circumstances. The determination of whether a person has substantial influence over the affairs of an organization is based
on all the facts and circumstances. Facts and
circumstances that tend to show a person has
substantial influence over the affairs of an organization include, but aren't limited to, the following.
• The person founded the organization.
• The person is a substantial contributor to
the organization under the section 507(d)
(2)(A) definition, only taking into account
contributions to the organization for the
past 5 years.
• The person's compensation is primarily
based on revenues derived from activities
of the organization that the person controls.
• The person has or shares authority to control or determine a substantial portion of
the organization's capital expenditures, operating budget, or compensation for employees.
• The person manages a discrete segment
or activity of the organization that represents a substantial portion of the activities,
assets, income, or expenses of the organization, as compared to the organization as
a whole.
• The person owns a controlling interest
(measured by either vote or value) in a corporation, partnership, or trust that is a disqualified person.
• The person is a nonstock organization controlled directly or indirectly by one or more
disqualified persons.
Facts and circumstances tending to show
that a person doesn't have substantial influence
over the affairs of an organization include, but
aren't limited to, the following.
• The person has taken a bona fide vow of
poverty as an employee or agent of a religious organization or on its behalf.
• The person is an independent contractor
whose sole relationship to the organization
is providing professional advice (without
having decision-making authority) with respect to transactions from which the independent contractor won't economically
benefit either directly or indirectly aside
from customary fees received for the professional advice rendered.
• Any preferential treatment the person receives based on the size of the person's
donation is also offered to others making
comparable widely solicited donations.
• The direct supervisor of the person isn't a
disqualified person.
• The person doesn't participate in any management decisions affecting the organization as a whole or a discrete segment of
the organization that represents a substantial portion of the activities, assets, income,
Publication 557 (1-2025)

or expenses of the organization, as compared to the organization as a whole.
In the case of multiple organizations affiliated by common control or governing documents, the determination of whether a person
does or doesn't have substantial influence is
made separately for each applicable tax-exempt organization. A person may be a disqualified person with respect to transactions with
more than one organization.
Reasonable compensation. Reasonable
compensation is the value that would ordinarily
be paid for like services by like enterprises under like circumstances. The section 162 standard will apply in determining the reasonableness of compensation. The fact that a bonus or
revenue-sharing arrangement is subject to a
cap is a relevant factor in determining reasonableness of compensation.
To determine the reasonableness of compensation, all items of compensation provided
by an applicable tax-exempt organization in exchange for performance of services are taken
into account in determining the value of compensation (except for economic benefits that
are disregarded under the discussion Disregarded benefits, later). Items of compensation include:
• All forms of cash and noncash compensation, including salary, fees, bonuses, severance payments, and deferred noncash
compensation;
• The payment of liability insurance premiums for, or the payment or reimbursement
by the organization of penalties, taxes, or
certain expenses under section 4958, unless excludable from income as a de minimis fringe benefit under section 132(a)(4);
• All other compensatory benefits, whether
or not included in gross income for income
tax purposes;
• Taxable and nontaxable fringe benefits, except fringe benefits described in section
132; and
• Foregone interest on loans.
Intent to treat benefits as compensation.
An economic benefit isn't treated as consideration for the performance of services unless the
organization providing the benefit clearly indicates its intent to treat the benefit as compensation when the benefit is paid.
An applicable tax-exempt organization (or
entity that it controls) is treated as clearly indicating its intent to provide an economic benefit
as compensation for services only if the organization provides written substantiation that is
contemporaneous with the transfer of the economic benefits under consideration. Ways to
provide contemporaneous written substantiation of its intent to provide an economic benefit
as compensation include:
• The organization produces a signed written employment contract;
• The organization reports the benefit as
compensation on an original Form W-2,
Form 1099, or Form 990, or on an amended form filed before starting an IRS examination; or
• The disqualified person reports the benefit
as income on the person's original Form
1040 or 1040-SR, or on an amended form
filed before starting an IRS examination.
Publication 557 (1-2025)

Exception. If the economic benefit is excluded from the disqualified person's gross income
for income tax purposes, the applicable tax-exempt organization isn't required to indicate its
intent to provide an economic benefit as compensation for services.
Rebuttable presumption that a transaction isn't an excess benefit transaction.
Payments under a compensation arrangement
are presumed to be reasonable and the transfer
of property (or right to use property) is presumed to be at fair market value, if the following
three conditions are met.
1. The transaction is approved in advance by
an authorized body of the organization (or
an entity it controls) which is composed of
individuals who don't have a conflict of interest concerning the transaction.
2. Before making its determination, the authorized body obtained and relied upon
appropriate data as to comparability.
(There is a special safe harbor for small organizations. If the organization has gross
receipts of less than $1 million, appropriate comparability data includes data on
compensation paid by three comparable
organizations in the same or similar communities for similar services.)
3. The authorized body adequately documents the basis for its determination concurrently with making that determination.
The documentation should include:
a. The terms of the approved transaction
and the date approved,
b. The members of the authorized body
who were present during debate on
the transaction that was approved and
those who voted on it,
c. The comparability data obtained and
relied upon by the authorized body
and how the data was obtained,
d. Any actions by a member of the authorized body having conflict of interest, and
e. Documentation of the basis of the determination before the later of the next
meeting of the authorized body or 60
days after the final actions of the authorized body are taken, and approval
of records as reasonable, accurate,
and complete within a reasonable
time thereafter.
Disregarded benefits. The following economic benefits are disregarded for section 4958
purposes.
• Nontaxable fringe benefits that are excluded from income under section 132.
• Benefits provided to a volunteer for the organization if the benefit is provided to the
general public in exchange for a membership fee or contribution of $75 or less.
• Benefits provided to a member of an organization due to the payment of a membership fee or to a donor as a result of a
deductible contribution, if a significant
number of disqualified persons make similar payments or contributions and are offered a similar economic benefit.
Chapter 5

Excise Taxes

• Benefits provided to a person solely as a

member of a charitable class that the applicable tax-exempt organization intends to
benefit as part of the accomplishment of its
exempt purpose.
• A transfer of an economic benefit to or for
the use of a governmental unit, as defined
in section 170(c)(1), if exclusively for public
purposes.

Special exception for initial contracts.
Section 4958 doesn't apply to any fixed payment made to a person under an initial contract.
A fixed payment is an amount of cash or
other property specified in the contract, or determined by a fixed formula that is specified in
the contract, which is to be paid or transferred in
exchange for the provision of specified services
or property.
A fixed formula can, generally, incorporate
an amount that depends upon future specified
events or contingencies, as long as no one has
discretion when calculating the amount of a
payment or deciding whether to make a payment (such as a bonus).
An initial contract is a binding written contract between an applicable tax-exempt organization and a person who wasn't a disqualified
person immediately before entering into the
contract.
A binding written contract, providing it can
be terminated or canceled by the applicable
tax-exempt organization without the other party's consent (except as a result of substantial
nonperformance) and without substantial penalty, is treated as a new contract, as of the earliest date any termination or cancellation would
be effective. Also, if the parties make a material
change to a contract, which includes an extension or renewal of the contract (except for an extension or renewal resulting from the exercise of
an option by the disqualified person), or a more
than incidental change to the amount payable
under the contract, it is treated as a new contract as of the effective date of the material
change.
More information. For more information,
see the Instructions for Forms 990 and 4720.

Excess Business
Holdings
General rule. Private foundations are generally not permitted to hold more than a 20% interest in an unrelated business enterprise. They
may be subject to an excise tax on the amount
of any excess business holdings. For purposes
of section 4943, for tax years beginning after
August 17, 2006, donor advised funds and certain supporting organizations are considered
private foundations.
Exception under section 4943(g). Section
4943(g) added by the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018, P.L. No. 115-123, 132 Stat. 64 (2018),
provides an exception for certain limited holdings to independently operated businesses. In
general, the excess business holdings provisions of section 4943(a) shall not apply with respect to the holdings of a private foundation in
any business enterprise which meets all the requirements of section 4943(g)(2), (3), and (4).
63

The requirements of section 4943(g)(2) are met
if:
1. 100% of the voting stock in the business
enterprise is held by the private foundation
at all times during the tax year, and
2. All of the private foundation’s ownership
interests were acquired by means other
than purchase, such as a gift or bequest.
The requirements of section 4943(g)(3) are met
if the business enterprise, no later than 120
days after the close of the tax year, distributes
an amount equal to its net operating income for
such tax year to the private foundation. For purposes of section 4943(g), the net operating income of any business enterprise for any tax
year is an amount equal to the gross income of
the business enterprise for the tax year, reduced by the sum of:
1. The deductions allowed by chapter 1 of
the Code for the tax year that are directly
connected with the production of such income,
2. The tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Code
on the business enterprise for the tax year,
and
3. An amount for a reasonable reserve for
working capital and other business needs
of the business enterprise.
The requirements of section 4943(g)(4) are met
if, at all times during the tax year:
1. No substantial contributor (as defined in
section 4958(c)(3)(C)) to the private foundation or family member (as determined
under section 4958(f)(4)) of such a contributor is a director, officer, trustee, manager, employee, or contractor of the business enterprise (or an individual having
powers or responsibilities similar to any of
the foregoing);
2. At least a majority of the board of directors
of the private foundation are persons who
are not (i) directors or officers of the business enterprise, or (ii) family members of a
substantial contributor to the private foundation; and
3. There is no loan outstanding from the
business enterprise to a substantial contributor to the private foundation or to any
family member of such a contributor.
This provision does not apply to any donor advised fund treated as a private foundation by
section 4943(e), a supporting organization treated as a private foundation by section 4943(f), a
trust described in section 4947(a)(1), or a trust
described in section 4947(a)(2).
Section 4943(g) shall apply to tax years beginning after December 31, 2017.
Donor advised fund. In general, a donor advised fund is a fund or account separately identified by reference to contributions of a donor or
donors that is owned and controlled by a sponsoring organization and for which the donor has
64

or expects to have advisory privileges concerning the distribution or investment of the funds.
Supporting organizations. Only certain supporting organizations are subject to the excess
business holdings tax under section 4943.
These include (1) Type III supporting organizations that aren't functionally integrated and (2)
Type II supporting organizations that accept any
gift or contribution from a person who alone or
in connection with a related party controls the
supported organization that the Type II supporting organization supports.
Taxes. A private foundation that has excess
holdings in a business enterprise may become
liable for an excise tax based on the amount of
holdings. The initial tax is 10% (5% for tax years
beginning before August 18, 2006) of the value
of the excess holdings and is imposed on the
last day of each tax year that ends during the
taxable period. The excess holdings are determined on the day during the tax year when they
were the largest.
A foundation that fails to correct the excess
business holdings becomes liable for an additional tax of 200% of the remaining excess business holdings as of the earlier of tax assessment or mailing of a notice of deficiency.
For more information on the tax on excess
business holdings, see the Instructions for Form
4720.

Taxable Distributions of
Sponsoring
Organizations
An excise tax under section 4966 is imposed on
a sponsoring organization for each taxable distribution it makes from a donor advised fund. An
excise tax is also imposed on any fund manager
of the sponsoring organization who agreed to
the making of a distribution, knowing that it is a
taxable distribution.
Taxable distribution. A taxable distribution is
any distribution from a donor advised fund to
any natural person or to any other person if:
1. The distribution is for any purpose other
than one specified in section 170(c)(2)(B),
or
2. The sponsoring organization maintaining
the donor advised fund doesn't exercise
expenditure responsibility with respect to
the distribution in accordance with section
4945(h).
However, a taxable distribution doesn't include a distribution from a donor advised fund
to:
• Any organization described in section
170(b)(1)(A) (other than a disqualified supporting organization),
• The sponsoring organization of the donor
advised fund, or
• Any other donor advised fund.
The tax on taxable distributions applies to
distributions occurring in tax years beginning after August 17, 2006.

Chapter 5

Excise Taxes

Sponsoring organization. A sponsoring organization is a section 170(c) organization that
is neither a government organization (as referred to in section 170(c)(1) and (2)(A)) nor a private foundation.
Donor advised fund. A donor advised fund is
a fund or account:
1. Which is separately identified by reference
to contributions of a donor or donors,
2. Which is owned and controlled by a sponsoring organization, and
3. For which the donor (or any person appointed or designated by the donor) has or
expects to have advisory privileges concerning the distribution or investment of
the funds held in the donor advised funds
or accounts because of the donor's status
as a donor.

Exception. A donor advised fund doesn't
include:
1. A fund or account that makes distributions
only to a single identified organization or
governmental entity; or
2. Any fund or account for a person described in 3 above that gives advice about
which individuals receive grants for travel,
study, or similar purposes, if the following
three requirements are met:
a. The person's advisory privileges are
performed exclusively by such person
in their capacity as a committee member of which all the committee members are appointed by the sponsoring
organization,
b. No combination of persons with advisory privileges, described in 3 above,
or persons related to those in 3 above
directly or indirectly control the committee, and
c. All grants from the fund or account are
awarded on an objective and nondiscriminatory basis according to a procedure approved in advance by the
board of directors of the sponsoring
organization. The procedure must be
designed to ensure that all grants
meet the requirements of section
4945(g)(1), (2), or (3).
Disqualified supporting organization. A disqualified supporting organization includes (1) a
Type III supporting organization that isn't functionally integrated, and (2) any supporting organization where the donor or donor advisor
(and any related parties) directly or indirectly
controls a supported organization of the supporting organization.
Tax on sponsoring organization. A tax of
20% of the amount of each taxable distribution
is imposed on the sponsoring organization.

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Tax on fund manager. If a tax is imposed on a
taxable distribution of the sponsoring organization, a tax of 5% of the distribution will be imposed on any fund manager who agreed to the
distribution knowing that it was a taxable distribution. Any fund manager who took part in the
distribution and is liable for the tax must pay the
tax. The maximum amount of tax on all fund
managers for any one taxable distribution is
$10,000. If more than one fund manager is liable for tax on a taxable distribution, all such
managers are jointly and severally liable for the
tax.
For more information on the tax on taxable
distributions of sponsoring organizations, see
the Instructions for Form 4720.

Taxes on Prohibited
Benefits Resulting from
Donor Advised Fund
Distributions
Prohibited benefit. If any donor, donor advisor, or related party advises the sponsoring organization about making a distribution which results in a donor, donor advisor, or related party
receiving (either directly or indirectly) a more
than incidental benefit, then such benefit is a
prohibited benefit. The tax on prohibited benefits applies to distributions occurring in tax years
beginning after August 17, 2006.
Donor advisor. A donor advisor is any person
appointed or designated by a donor to advise a
sponsoring organization on the distribution or
investment of amounts held in the donor's fund
or account.
Related party. A related party includes any
family member or 35% controlled entity. See the
definition of those terms under Disqualified Person, earlier.
Tax on donor, donor advisor, or related person. A tax of 125% of the benefit resulting from
the distribution is imposed on both the party
who advised as to the distribution (which might
be a donor, donor advisor, or related party) and
the party who received such benefit (which
might be a donor, donor advisor, or related
party). The advisor and the party who received
the benefit are jointly and severally liable for the
tax.
Tax on fund managers. If a tax is imposed on
a prohibited benefit received by a donor, donor
advisor, or related person, a tax of 10% of the
amount of the prohibited benefit is imposed on
any fund manager who agreed to the distribution knowing that it would confer a prohibited
benefit. Any fund manager who took part in the
distribution and is liable for the tax must pay the
tax. The maximum amount of tax on all fund
managers for any one taxable distribution is
$10,000. If more than one fund manager is liable for tax on a taxable distribution, all such
managers are jointly and severally liable for the
tax.
Exception. If a person engaged in an excess
benefit transaction and received a prohibited
Publication 557 (1-2025)

benefit for the same transaction, the person is
taxed under section 4958, and no tax is imposed under section 4967 for a prohibited benefit.
For more information on taxes on prohibited
benefits distributed from donor advised funds,
see the Instructions for Form 4720.

Excise Taxes on Private
Foundations
There is an excise tax on the net investment income of most domestic private foundations.
Capital gains from appreciation are included in
the tax base on private foundation net investment income. This tax must be reported on
Form 990-PF and must be paid annually at the
time for filing that return or in quarterly estimated tax payments if the total tax for the year
(section 4940 tax minus credits) is $500 or
more. Form 990-W is used to calculate the estimated tax.
In addition, there are several other rules that
apply to excise taxes on private foundations.
These include:
1. Restrictions on self-dealing between private foundations and their substantial contributors and other disqualified persons,
2. Requirements that the foundation annually
distribute income for charitable purposes,
3. Limits on their holdings in any business
enterprise (see Excess Business Holdings, earlier),
4. Provisions that investments mustn't jeopardize the carrying out of exempt purposes, and
5. Provisions to assure that expenditures further the organization's exempt purposes.
Violations of these provisions give rise to
taxes and penalties against the private foundation and, in some cases, its managers, its substantial contributors, and certain related persons.
For more information on the excise taxes imposed on private foundations, see the Instructions for Form 4720 and the Instructions for
Form 990-PF.

Excise Taxes on Black
Lung Benefit Trusts
A black lung benefit trust that makes any expenditures, payments, or investments other than
those described in chapter 4 under 501(c)(21) Black Lung Benefit Trusts must pay a tax equal
to 10% of the amount of such expenditures. If
there are any acts of self-dealing between the
trust and a disqualified person, a tax equal to
10% of the amount involved is imposed on the
disqualified person. Both of these excise taxes
are reported on Form 6069. See the Instructions
for Form 6069 and Form 990 for more information on these taxes and what has to be filed,
even if the trust is excepted from filing.

Chapter 5

Excise Taxes

Excise Tax on Failure To
Meet the Community
Health Needs
Assessment
Requirements
For tax years beginning after March 23, 2012,
new section 4959 imposes an excise tax on
hospital organizations which fail to meet certain
section 501(r) requirements for each of their
hospital facilities. These entities must meet section 501(r)(3) requirements at all times during
their tax year. Section 501(r)(3) requirements
pertain to a hospital organization preparing a
community health needs assessment (CHNA).
See Schedule H, Hospitals (Form 990), for details.

Excise Tax on Executive
Compensation
New section 4960 imposes an excise tax on an
organization that pays to any covered employee
more than $1 million in remuneration or pays an
excess parachute payment during the year
starting in 2018. See section 4960 and Form
4720, Return of Certain Excise Taxes Under
Chapters 41 and 42 of the Internal Revenue
Code, final regulations TD 9938 (Regulations
sections 53.4960-0 through 53.4960-6), and
Notice 2019-09, 2019-04 I.R.B. 403, for more
information.

Excise Tax on Net
Investment Income of
Certain Colleges and
Universities
New section 4968 imposes an excise tax on the
net investment income of certain private colleges and universities. A private college or university will be subject to the excise tax on net investment income under section 4968 if four
tests are met.
1. The organization must be an eligible educational institution as defined in section
25A(f)(2). Section 25A(f)(2) defines “eligible educational institution” as an institution
that is described in section 481 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
section 1088), as in effect on August 5,
1997, and is eligible to participate in a program under Title IV of such Act (20 U.S.C.
sections 1070 et seq.).
2. The organization must have had at least
500 tuition-paying students, based upon a
daily average student count, during the
preceding tax year.
3. More than 50% of those students must
have been located in the United States.

65

4. The aggregate fair market value, at the
end of the preceding tax year, of the assets not used directly in carrying out the
organization’s exempt purpose, held by
the organization and related organizations,
must be at least $500,000 per student.

OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/
MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms,
which can be completed online and then
filed electronically regardless of income.

See the Instructions for Form 990, Part V,
Line 16 for more information about organizations subject to the excise tax. See Instructions
for Form 4720, Schedule O, and final regulations TD 9917 (Regulations sections 53.4968-1
through 53.4968-4) for more information about
calculating the excise tax.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.
• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant
(IRS.gov/EITCAssistant) determines if
you’re eligible for the earned income credit
(EIC).
• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN)
helps you get an employer identification
number (EIN) at no cost.
• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/
W4app) makes it easier for you to estimate
the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck.
This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay,
or tax due.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need
help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go
to IRS.gov to find resources that can help you
right away.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After
receiving all your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC,
1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment compensation
statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form
1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement
statements from banks and investment firms
(Forms 1099), you have several options to
choose from to prepare and file your tax return.
You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if
you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax
professional to prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Go to
IRS.gov to see your options for preparing and
filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, which include the following.
• Free File. This program lets you prepare
and file your federal individual income tax
return for free using brand-name tax-preparation-and-filing software or Free File fillable forms. However, state tax preparation
may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for
free online federal tax preparation, e-filing,
and direct deposit or payment options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to
people with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help
preparing their own tax returns. Go to
IRS.gov/VITA, download the free IRS2Go
app, or call 800-906-9887 for information
on free tax return preparation.
• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly
(TCE) program offers free tax help for all
taxpayers, particularly those who are 60
years of age and older. TCE volunteers
specialize in answering questions about
pensions and retirement-related issues
unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE,
download the free IRS2Go app, or call
888-227-7669 for information on free tax
return preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed
Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
66

• The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account

Look-up (IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on your repayments and
account balance.
• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
(IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures the amount you
can claim if you itemize deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040).

Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get
up-to-date information on current
events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you

get answers to some of the most common
tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant,
a tool that will ask you questions and,
based on your input, provide answers on a
number of tax law topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions,
and publications. You will find details on
the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your
questions.
• You may also be able to access tax law information in your electronic filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return?
There are various types of tax return preparers,
including enrolled agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others who don’t have professional credentials. If
you choose to have someone prepare your tax
return, choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax
preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs the
return, you're ultimately responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer
to accurately prepare your return. Anyone paid
to prepare tax returns for others should have a
thorough understanding of tax matters. For

more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on
IRS.gov.
Coronavirus. Go to IRS.gov/Coronavirus for
links to information on the impact of the coronavirus, as well as tax relief available for individuals and families, small and large businesses,
and tax-exempt organizations.
Employers can register to use Business
Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/
employer for fast, free, and secure online W-2
filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled
agents, and individuals who process Form W-2,
Wage and Tax Statement, and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax Statement.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia
to see the various social media tools the IRS
uses to share the latest information on tax
changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and
services. At the IRS, privacy and security are
our highest priority. We use these tools to share
public information with you. Don’t post your social security number (SSN) or other confidential
information on social media sites. Always protect your identity when using any social networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide
short, informative videos on various tax-related
topics in English, Spanish, and ASL.
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Watching IRS videos. The IRS Video portal
(IRSVideos.gov) contains video and audio presentations for individuals, small businesses,
and tax professionals.
Online tax information in other languages.
You can find information on IRS.gov/
MyLanguage if English isn’t your native language.
Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS is committed to serving our multilingual customers by offering OPI services. The
OPI Service is a federally funded program and
is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers
(TACs), other IRS offices, and every VITA/TCE
return site. The OPI Service is accessible in
more than 350 languages.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call
833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can
answer questions related to current and future
accessibility products and services available in
alternative media formats (for example, braille,
large print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to your IRS account.
For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.
Note. Form 9000, Alternative Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to

Publication 557 (1-2025)

receive certain types of written correspondence
in the following formats.
• Standard Print.

•
•
•
•
•

Large Print.
Braille.
Audio (MP3).
Plain Text File (TXT).
Braille Ready File (BRF).

Disasters. Go to Disaster Assistance and
Emergency Relief for Individuals and
Businesses to review the available disaster tax
relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to
IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print all
the forms, instructions, and publications you
may need. Or, you can go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to place an order.
Getting tax publications and instructions in
eBook format. You can also download and
view popular tax publications and instructions
(including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
Note. IRS eBooks have been tested using
Apple's iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven’t
been tested on other dedicated eBook readers,
and eBook functionality may not operate as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax
account.
• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
• See payment plan details or apply for a
new payment plan.
• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including key
data from your most recent tax return, and
transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from
the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests
from tax professionals.
• View your address on file or manage your
communication preferences.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional submit an authorization request to access your individual taxpayer IRS online
account. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The fastest way to receive a tax refund is to file electronically and
choose direct deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your
financial account. Direct deposit also avoids the
possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS.
Eight in 10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank or credit
union that can open an account online.

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Getting a transcript of your return. The
quickest way to get a copy of your tax transcript
is to go to IRS.gov/Transcripts. Click on either
“Get Transcript Online” or “Get Transcript by
Mail” to order a free copy of your transcript. If
you prefer, you can order your transcript by calling 800-908-9946.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related
identity theft issues.
• Tax-related identity theft happens when
someone steals your personal information
to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with tax-

payers by email, text messages (including
shortened links), telephone calls, or social
media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information
on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and
businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of
tax-related identity theft, you can learn
what steps you should take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP
PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their
SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return
with your SSN. To learn more, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your
mobile device to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at
800-829-1954.
Note. The IRS can’t issue refunds before
mid-February for returns that claimed the EIC or
the additional child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment. Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the following options.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill
or estimated tax payment directly from your
checking or savings account at no cost to
you.
• Debit or Credit Card: Choose an approved
payment processor to pay online or by
phone.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a
payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or
through a tax professional.
• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System:
Best option for businesses. Enrollment is
required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment
to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes
with cash at a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do

same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for
availability, cost, and time frames.

Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption
technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by phone, or from a
mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe
and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy,
and faster than mailing in a check or money order.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment agreement
(IRS.gov/OPA) to meet your tax obligation
in monthly installments if you can’t pay
your taxes in full today. Once you complete
the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier
to see if you can settle your tax debt for
less than the full amount you owe. For
more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/
Form1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status
of Form 1040-X amended returns.
Note. It can take up to 3 weeks from the
date you filed your amended return for it to
show up in our system, and processing it can
take up to 16 weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter
you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find
additional information about responding to an
IRS notice or letter.
Note. You can use Schedule LEP (Form
1040), Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a preference to receive notices,
letters, or other written communications from
the IRS in an alternative language. You may not
immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment
to LEP taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline
that is scheduled to begin providing translations
in 2024. You will continue to receive communications, including notices and letters in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local IRS office. Keep in
mind, many questions can be answered on
IRS.gov without visiting an IRS TAC. Go to
IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask
about most. If you still need help, IRS TACs provide tax help when a tax issue can’t be handled
online or by phone. All TACs now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance
that you can get the service you need without
long wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/
TACLocator to find the nearest TAC and to
check
hours,
available
services,
and
67

appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app,
under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”

The Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) Is Here To
Help You
What Is TAS?

TAS is an independent organization within the
IRS that helps taxpayers and protects taxpayer
rights. Their job is to ensure that every taxpayer
is treated fairly and that you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of
Rights.

How Can You Learn About Your
Taxpayer Rights?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes 10 basic
rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with
the IRS. Go to TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov to
help you understand what these rights mean to
you and how they apply. These are your rights.
Know them. Use them.

What Can TAS Do for You?

free. If you qualify for their assistance, you will
be assigned to one advocate who will work with
you throughout the process and will do everything possible to resolve your issue. TAS can
help you if:
• Your problem is causing financial difficulty
for you, your family, or your business;
• You face (or your business is facing) an immediate threat of adverse action; or
• You’ve tried repeatedly to contact the IRS
but no one has responded, or the IRS
hasn’t responded by the date promised.

How Can You Reach TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of
Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Your local advocate’s number is in your local directory and at
TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us.
You
can also call them at 877-777-4778.

How Else Does TAS Help
Taxpayers?
TAS works to resolve large-scale problems that
affect many taxpayers. If you know of one of
these broad issues, report it to them at IRS.gov/
SAMS.

TAS for Tax Professionals
TAS can provide a variety of information for tax
professionals, including tax law updates and
guidance, TAS programs, and ways to let TAS
know about systemic problems you’ve seen in
your practice.

Low Income Taxpayer Clinics
(LITCs)
LITCs are independent from the IRS. LITCs represent individuals whose income is below a certain level and need to resolve tax problems with
the IRS, such as audits, appeals, and tax collection disputes. In addition, LITCs can provide information about taxpayer rights and responsibilities in different languages for individuals who
speak English as a second language. Services
are offered for free or a small fee for eligible taxpayers. To find an LITC near you, go to
TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/about-us/LowIncome-Taxpayer-Clinics-LITC or see IRS Pub.
4134, Low Income Taxpayer Clinic List.

TAS can help you resolve problems that you
can’t resolve with the IRS. And their service is

68

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Organization Reference Chart
Section of
1986 Code

Description of organization

General nature of activities

Application
Form1

Annual return
required to be
filed

Contributions
allowable

501(c)(1)

Corporations Organized under Act
of Congress (including Federal Credit
Unions)

Instrumentalities of the
United States

No Form

None

Yes, if made for
exclusively public
purposes

501(c)(2)

Title Holding Corporation For
Exempt Organization

Holding title to property of an
exempt organization and distributing
net income to it

1024

9902 or 990-EZ9

No3

501(c)(3)

Religious, Educational, Charitable,
Activities of nature implied by description
Scientific, Literary, Testing for Public
of class of organization
Safety, to Foster National or International
Amateur Sports Competition, or
Prevention of Cruelty to Children or
Animals Organizations

1023, 1023-EZ 9902 or 990-EZ9,
or 990-PF

Yes, generally

501(c)(4)

Civic Leagues, Social Welfare
Organizations; and Local
Associations of Employees

Promotion of community welfare;
charitable, educational, or recreational

Must provide
9902 or 990-EZ9
notice on Form
8976; may also
submit
Form1024-A

No, generally 3, 4

501(c)(5)

Labor, Agricultural, and Horticultural
Organizations

Educational or instructive, the
purpose being to improve conditions of
work, and to improve products and/or
efficiency

1024

9902 or 990-EZ1

No3

501(c)(6)

Business Leagues, Chambers of
Commerce, Real Estate Boards,
etc.

Improvement of business
1024
conditions of one or more lines of business

9902 or 990-EZ9

No3

501(c)(7)

Social and Recreational Clubs

Pleasure, recreation, social activities

1024

9902 or 990-EZ9

No3

501(c)(8)

Fraternal Beneficiary Societies
and Associations

Providing for payment of life, sickness,
accident or other benefits
to members within a lodge system

1024

990 or 990-EZ

Yes, if for certain
Sec. 501(c)(3)
purposes

501(c)(9)

Voluntary Employees Beneficiary
Associations

Employee association providing for
payment
of life, sickness, accident, or other
benefits to members

1024

9902 or 990-EZ9

No3

501(c)(10)

Domestic Fraternal Societies
and Associations

Earnings devoted to charitable, fraternal,
1024
and
other specified purposes within a domestic
lodge system. No benefits to members

9902 or 990-EZ9

Yes, if for certain
Sec. 501(c)(3)
purposes

501(c)(11)

Teachers' Retirement Fund Associations

Teachers' association for payment of
retirement benefits

10247

9902 or 990-EZ9

No3

501(c)(12)

Benevolent Life Insurance Associations, Activities of a mutual or cooperative
Mutual Ditch or
nature
Irrigation Companies, Mutual or
Cooperative Telephone Companies, and
Like Organizations

1024

9902 or 990-EZ9

No3

501(c)(13)

Cemetery Companies

Burials and incidental activities

1024

9902 or 990-EZ9

Yes, generally

501(c)(14)

State-Chartered Credit Unions,
Mutual Reserve Funds

Loans to members

1024

990 or 990-EZ

9

No3

501(c)(15)

Mutual Insurance Companies or
Associations

Providing insurance to members
substantially at cost

1024

9902 or 990-EZ9

No3

501(c)(16)

Cooperative Organizations to
Finance Crop Operations

Financing crop operations in
conjunction with activities of a marketing
or purchasing association

Form 1120-C,
10247

9902 or 990-EZ9

No3

501(c)(17)

Supplemental Unemployment
Benefit Trusts

Provides for payment of
supplemental unemployment
compensation benefits

1024

9902 or 990-EZ9

No3

501(c)(18)

Employee Funded Pension Trust
(created before June 25, 1959)

Payment of benefits under a
pension plan funded by employees

10247

9902 or 990-EZ9

No3

501(c)(19)

Post or Organization of Past or
Present Members of the Armed Forces

Activities implied by nature of organization 1024

9902 or 990-EZ9

No, generally8

501(c)(21)

Black Lung Benefit Trusts

Funded by coal mine operators to satisfy
their liability for disability or
death due to black lung diseases

990

No5

Publication 557 (1-2025)

2

7

10247

2

9

69

Section of
1986 Code

Description of organization

General nature of activities

Application
Form1

Annual return
required to be
filed

Contributions
allowable

501(c)(22)

Withdrawal Liability Payment Fund

To provide funds to meet the
liability of employers withdrawing from
a multi-employer pension fund

10247

9902 or 990-EZ9

No6

501(c)(23)

Veterans' Organization (created
before 1880)

To provide insurance and other
benefits to veterans

10247

9902 or 990-EZ9

No, generally8

501(c)(25)

Title Holding Corporations or Trusts with
Multiple Parent Corporations

Holding title and paying over
income from real property to 35 or fewer
parents or beneficiaries

1024

9902 or 990-EZ9

No

501(c)(26)

State-Sponsored Organization Providing Provides health care coverage to high-risk
Health Coverage for High-Risk
individuals
Individuals

10247

9902 or 990-EZ9

No

501(c)(27)

State-Sponsored Workers'
Reimburses members for losses
Compensation Reinsurance Organization under workers' compensation acts

10247

9902 or 990-EZ9

No

501(c)(28)

National Railroad Retirement Investment Manages and invests the assets of the
Trust
Railroad Retirement Account

1024

99012

No12

501(c)(29)

CO-OP health insurance issuers

A qualified health insurance issuer which
has received a loan or grant under the
CO-OP program

1024 and Form 9902
871815

No14

501(d)

Religious and Apostolic Associations

Regular business activities;
Communal religious community

1024

106510

No3

501(e)

Cooperative Hospital Service
Organizations

Performs cooperative services for hospitals 1023

9902 or 990-EZ9

Yes

501(f)

Cooperative Service Organizations
of Operating Educational Organizations

Performs collective investment
services for educational organizations

1023

9902 or 990-EZ9

Yes

501(k)

Child Care Organizations

Provides care for children

1023

9902 or 990-EZ9

Yes

501(n)

Charitable Risk Pools

Pools certain insurance risks of sec. 501(c) 1023
(3) organizations

9902 or 990-EZ9

Yes

501(q)

Credit Counseling Organization

Credit counseling services

1023

99013

No

521(a)

Farmers' Cooperative Associations

Cooperative marketing and
purchasing for agricultural procedures

1028 or 1024

1120-C

No

527

Political organizations

A party, committee, fund,
association, etc., that directly or indirectly
accepts contributions or makes
expenditures for political campaigns

8871

1120-POL11
9902 or 990-EZ8

No

1
Most 501(c) organizations, other than those described in sections 501(c)(3) (exceptions apply), (9), and (17), may, but are not required to, submit an application for recognition
of tax-exempt status from the IRS. These organizations may self-declare their tax exempt status by operating within the requirements of the applicable code section and filing
the required annual returns or notices.
2
For exceptions to the filing requirement, see chapter 2 and the form instructions. Note: For annual tax periods beginning after 2006, most tax-exempt organizations, other than
churches, are required to file an annual Form 990, 990-EZ, or 990-PF with the IRS or to submit an annual electronic notice, Form 990-N (e-Postcard), to the IRS. Tax-exempt
organizations failing to file an annual return or submit an annual notice as required for 3 consecutive years will automatically lose their tax-exempt status. See form instructions
as to which 990 series, and other series, forms, after the Taxpayer First Act, are required to be filed electronically.
3
An organization exempt under a subsection of section 501 other than 501(c)(3) can establish a charitable fund, contributions to which are deductible. Such a fund must itself
meet the requirements of section 501(c)(3) and the related notice requirements of section 508(a).
4
Contributions to volunteer fire companies and similar organizations are deductible, but only if made for exclusively public purposes.
5
Deductible as a business expense to the extent allowed by section 192.
6
Deductible as a business expense to the extent allowed by section 194A.
7
Reserved
8
Contributions to these organizations are deductible only if 90% or more of the organization's members are war veterans.
9
For limits on the use of Form 990-EZ, see chapter 2 and the general instructions for Form 990-EZ (or Form 990).
10
Although the organization files a partnership return, all distributions are deemed dividends. The members aren't entitled to pass through treatment of the organization's
income or expenses.
11
Form 1120-POL is required only if the organization has taxable income as defined in section 527(c).
12
Only required to annually file so much of the Form 990 that relates to the names and addresses of the officers, directors, trustees, and key employees, and their titles,
compensation, and hours devoted to their positions (Part VII of Form 990), and to complete Item I in the Heading of Form 990 to confirm its tax-exempt status under section
501(c)(28).
13
See section 501(q) if the organization provides credit counseling services and seeks recognition of exemption under section 501(c)(4). Use Form 1024-A if applying for
recognition under section 501(c)(4).
14
See section 501(c)(29) for details.
15
See Rev. Proc. 2015-17, sec. 4.01, 2015-7 I.R.B. 599, as modified and superseded by Rev. Proc. 2022-8, for details.

70

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Appendix. Sample Articles of Organization
The following are examples of Articles of Incorporation (Draft A) and a declaration of trust (Draft B) that contain the required
information as to purposes and powers of an organization and disposition of its assets upon dissolution. You should bear in
mind that requirements for these instruments may vary under applicable state law.
See Private Foundations and Public Charities, earlier for the special provisions required in a private foundation's governing
instrument in order for it to qualify for exemption.
DRAFT A
Articles of Incorporation of the undersigned, a majority of whom are citizens of the United States, desiring to form a
Non-Profit Corporation under the Non-Profit Corporation Law of
, do hereby certify:
First: The name of the Corporation shall be

.

Second: The place in this state where the principal office of the Corporation is to be located is the City of
,
County.
Third: Said corporation is organized exclusively for charitable, religious, educational, and scientific purposes, including, for
such purposes, the making of distributions to organizations that qualify as exempt organizations under section 501(c)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax code.
Fourth: The names and addresses of the persons who are the initial trustees of the corporation are as follows:
Name
, Address
Fifth: No part of the net earnings of the corporation shall inure to the benefit of, or be distributable to its members, trustees,
officers, or other private persons, except that the corporation shall be authorized and empowered to pay reasonable
compensation for services rendered and to make payments and distributions in furtherance of the purposes set forth in
Article Third hereof. No substantial part of the activities of the corporation shall be the carrying on of propaganda, or
otherwise attempting to influence legislation, and the corporation shall not participate in, or intervene in (including the
publishing or distribution of statements) any political campaign on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office.
Notwithstanding any other provision of these articles, the corporation shall not carry on any other activities not permitted to
be carried on (a) by a corporation exempt from federal income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or
the corresponding section of any future federal tax code, or (b) by a corporation, contributions to which are deductible under
section 170(c)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax code.
If reference to federal law in articles of incorporation imposes a limitation that is invalid in your state, you may wish to
substitute the following for the last sentence of the preceding paragraph: “Notwithstanding any other provision of these
articles, this corporation shall not, except to an insubstantial degree, engage in any activities or exercise any powers that
aren't in furtherance of the purposes of this corporation.”
Sixth: Upon the dissolution of the corporation, assets shall be distributed for one or more exempt purposes within the
meaning of section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax code, or
shall be distributed to the federal government, or to a state or local government, for a public purpose. Any such assets not so
disposed of shall be disposed of by a Court of Competent Jurisdiction of the county in which the principal office of the
corporation is then located, exclusively for such purposes or to such organization or organizations, as said Court shall
determine, which are organized and operated exclusively for such purposes.
In witness whereof, we have hereunto subscribed our names this
.

Publication 557 (1-2025)

day of

, 20

71

Appendix. Sample Articles of Organization, continued
Draft B
The

Charitable Trust. Declaration of Trust made as of the
day of
, by
, of
, and
, of
, who hereby declare and agree that they have received this day
from
, as Donor, the sum of Ten Dollars ($10) and that they will hold and manage the
same, and any additions to it, in trust, as follows:
, 20

First: This trust shall be called “The

Charitable Trust.”

Second: The trustees may receive and accept property, whether real, personal, or mixed, by way of gift, bequest, or devise,
from any person, firm, trust, or corporation, to be held, administered, and disposed of in accordance with and pursuant to the
provisions of this Declaration of Trust; but no gift, bequest, or devise of any such property shall be received and accepted if it
is conditioned or limited in such manner as to require the disposition of the income or its principal to any person or
organization other than a “charitable organization” or for other than “charitable purposes” within the meaning of such terms as
defined in Article Third of this Declaration of Trust, or as shall, in the opinion of the trustees, jeopardize the federal income tax
exemption of this trust pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of any future
federal tax code.
Third:
a) The principal and income of all property received and accepted by the trustees to be administered under this Declaration
of Trust shall be held in trust by them, and the trustees may make payments or distributions from income or principal, or
both, to or for the use of such charitable organizations, within the meaning of that term as defined in paragraph C, in such
amounts and for such charitable purposes of the trust as the trustees shall from time to time select and determine; and the
trustees may make payments or distributions from income or principal, or both, directly for such charitable purposes, within
the meaning of that term as defined in paragraph D, in such amounts as the trustees shall from time to time select and
determine without making use of any other charitable organization. The trustees may also make payments or distributions
of all or any part of the income or principal to states, territories, or possessions of the United States, any political
subdivision of any of the foregoing, or to the United States or the District of Columbia but only for charitable purposes
within the meaning of that term as defined in paragraph D. Income or principal derived from contributions by corporations
shall be distributed by the trustees for use solely within the United States or its possessions. No part of the net earnings of
this trust shall inure or be payable to or for the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and no substantial part of the
activities of this trust shall be the carrying on of propaganda, or otherwise attempting to influence legislation. No part of the
activities of this trust shall be the participation in, or intervention in (including the publishing or distributing of statements),
any political campaign on behalf of or in opposition to any candidate for public office.
b) The trust shall continue forever unless the trustees terminate it and distribute all of the principal and income, which action
may be taken by the trustees in their discretion at any time. On such termination, assets shall be distributed for one or more
exempt purposes within the meaning of section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of
any future federal tax code, or shall be distributed to the federal government, or to a state or local government, for a public
purpose. The donor authorizes and empowers the trustees to form and organize a nonprofit corporation limited to the uses
and purposes provided for in this Declaration of Trust, such corporation to be organized under the laws of any state or
under the laws of the United States as may be determined by the trustees; such corporation when organized to have power
to administer and control the affairs and property and to carry out the uses, objects, and purposes of this trust. Upon the
creation and organization of such corporation, the trustees are authorized and empowered to convey, transfer, and deliver
to such corporation all the property and assets to which this trust may be or become entitled. The charter, bylaws, and
other provisions for the organization and management of such corporation and its affairs and property shall be such as the
trustees shall determine, consistent with the provisions of this paragraph.

72

Publication 557 (1-2025)

c) In this Declaration of Trust and in any amendments to it, references to “charitable organizations” or “charitable
organization” mean corporations, trusts, funds, foundations, or community chests created or organized in the United States
or in any of its possessions, whether under the laws of the United States, any state or territory, the District of Columbia, or
any possession of the United States, organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes, no part of the net
earnings of which inures or is payable to or for the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and no substantial part
of the activities of which is carrying on propaganda, or otherwise attempting to influence legislation, and which don't
participate in or intervene in (including the publishing or distributing of statements) any political campaign on behalf of or in
opposition to any candidate for public office. It is intended that the organization described in this paragraph C shall be
entitled to exemption from federal income tax under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding
section of any future federal tax code.
d) In this Declaration of Trust and in any amendments to it, the term “charitable purposes” shall be limited to and shall include
only religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes within the meaning of those terms as used in section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax code, but only such
purposes as also constitute public charitable purposes under the law of trusts of the State of
.
Fourth: This Declaration of Trust may be amended at any time or times by written instrument or instruments signed and
sealed by the trustees, and acknowledged by any of the trustees, provided that no amendment shall authorize the trustees to
conduct the affairs of this trust in any manner or for any purpose contrary to the provisions of section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code, or the corresponding section of any future federal tax code. An amendment of the provisions of this Article
Fourth (or any amendment to it) shall be valid only if and to the extent that such amendment further restricts the trustees'
amending power. All instruments amending this Declaration of Trust shall be noted upon or kept attached to the executed
original of this Declaration of Trust held by the trustees.
Fifth: Any trustee under this Declaration of Trust may, by written instrument, signed and acknowledged, resign his office. The
number of trustees shall be at all times not less than two, and whenever for any reason the number is reduced to one, there
shall be, and at any other time there may be, appointed one or more additional trustees. Appointments shall be made by the
trustee or trustees for the time in office by written instruments signed and acknowledged. Any succeeding or additional
trustee shall, upon his or her acceptance of the office by written instrument signed and acknowledged, have the same
powers, rights, and duties, and the same title to the trust estate jointly with the surviving or remaining trustee or trustees as if
originally appointed.
None of the trustees shall be required to furnish any bond or surety. None of them shall be responsible or liable for the acts or
omissions of any other of the trustees or of any predecessor or of a custodian, agent, depositary, or counsel selected with
reasonable care.
The one or more trustees, whether original or successor, for the time being in office, shall have full authority to act even
though one or more vacancies may exist. A trustee may, by appropriate written instrument, delegate all or any part of his or
her powers to another or others of the trustees for such periods and subject to such conditions as such delegating trustee
may determine.
The trustees serving under this Declaration of Trust are authorized to pay to themselves amounts for reasonable expenses
incurred and reasonable compensation for services rendered in the administration of this trust, but in no event shall any
trustee who has made a contribution to this trust ever receive any compensation thereafter.
Sixth: In extension and not in limitation of the common law and statutory powers of trustees and other powers granted in this
Declaration of Trust, the trustees shall have the following discretionary powers.
a) To invest and reinvest the principal and income of the trust in such property, real, personal, or mixed, and in such manner
as they shall deem proper, and from time to time to change investments as they shall deem advisable; to invest in or retain
any stocks, shares, bonds, notes, obligations, or personal or real property (including without limitation any interests in or
obligations of any corporation, association, business trust, investment trust, common trust fund, or investment company)
although some or all of the property so acquired or retained is of a kind or size which but for this express authority wouldn't
be considered proper and although all of the trust funds are invested in the securities of one company. No principal or
income, however, shall be loaned, directly or indirectly, to any trustee or to anyone else, corporate or otherwise, who has at
any time made a contribution to this trust, nor to anyone except on the basis of an adequate interest charge and with
adequate security.
b) To sell, lease, or exchange any personal, mixed, or real property, at public auction or by private contract, for such
consideration and on such terms as to credit or otherwise, and to make such contracts and enter into such undertakings
relating to the trust property, as they consider advisable, whether or not such leases or contracts may extend beyond the
duration of the trust.

Publication 557 (1-2025)

73

c) To borrow money for such periods, at such rates of interest, and upon such terms as the trustees consider advisable, and
as security for such loans to mortgage or pledge any real or personal property with or without power of sale; to acquire or
hold any real or personal property, subject to any mortgage or pledge on or of property acquired or held by this trust.
d) To execute and deliver deeds, assignments, transfers, mortgages, pledges, leases, covenants, contracts, promissory
notes, releases, and other instruments, sealed or unsealed, incident to any transaction in which they engage.
e) To vote, to give proxies, to participate in the reorganization, merger, or consolidation of any concern, or in the sale, lease,
disposition, or distribution of its assets; to join with other security holders in acting through a committee, depositary, voting
trustees, or otherwise, and in this connection to delegate authority to such committee, depositary, or trustees and to
deposit securities with them or transfer securities to them; to pay assessments levied on securities or to exercise
subscription rights in respect of securities.
f) To employ a bank or trust company as custodian of any funds or securities and to delegate to it such powers as they deem
appropriate; to hold trust property without indication of fiduciary capacity but only in the name of a registered nominee,
provided the trust property is at all times identified as such on the books of the trust; to keep any or all of the trust property
or funds in any place or places in the United States of America; to employ clerks, accountants, investment counsel,
investment agents, and any special services, and to pay the reasonable compensation and expenses of all such services
in addition to the compensation of the trustees.
Seventh: The trustees' powers are exercisable solely in the fiduciary capacity consistent with and in furtherance of the
charitable purposes of this trust as specified in Article Third and not otherwise.
Eighth: In this Declaration of Trust and in any amendment to it, references to “trustees” mean the one or more trustees,
whether original or successor, for the time being in office.
Ninth: Any person may rely on a copy, certified by a notary public, of the executed original of this Declaration of Trust held by
the trustees, and of any of the notations on it and writings attached to it, as fully as he might rely on the original documents
themselves. Any such person may rely fully on any statements of fact certified by anyone who appears from such original
documents or from such certified copy to be a trustee under this Declaration of Trust. No one dealing with the trustees need
inquire concerning the validity of anything the trustees purport to do. No one dealing with the trustees need see to the
application of anything paid or transferred to or upon the order of the trustees of the trust.
Tenth: This Declaration of Trust is to be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of
• Trustee
• Trustee

.

74

Publication 557 (1-2025)

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A
Acknowledgment of
contributions 17
Adverse determination 6
Affordable Care Act:
Hospitals 32
Agricultural organization 49
Airport 48
Alumni association 26
Amateur athletic
organizations 30
Animals, prevention of cruelty
to 30
Appeal procedures 7
Application procedures 4, 5
Bylaws 5
Conformed copy 5
Description of activities 5
Employer identification
number 5
Financial Unless you are filing
Form 1023-EZ, y 6
Organizing If you are submitting
a Form 1023 or Form 1024,
y 5
Aquatic resources 49
Articles of organization 25
Assistance (See Tax help)
Athletic organization 26, 30
Attorney's fees 29
Attribution, special rules 44

B
Black lung benefit trust 57
Board of trade 49
Bureau defined 40
Burial benefit insurance 55
Business income, unrelated 13
Business league 49

C
Cemetery company 55
Chamber of commerce 49
Change in legal structure 21
Charitable contributions 17, 22
Charitable organization 22, 28
Charitable risk pools 28
Child care organization 22
Children, prevention of cruelty
to 30
Church 29
Integrated auxiliaries 29
Civic leagues 48
Clinic 29
CO-OP Health Insurance
Issuers 59
College bookstore,
restaurant 26
Community association 48
Community trust 37
Contributions, charitable 17, 22
Court appeals 8
Credit union 56

D
Determination letter 6
Disclosures, required 16
Dues used for lobbying 21
Publication 557 (1-2025)

Nondeductible
contributions 20
Quid pro quo contributions 16
Services available from
government 20
Dispositions of donated
property 16
Disqualified persons 43
Domestic fraternal society 52
Donor advised funds:
Excess benefit transaction 61
Dues used for political or
legislative activities 21, 50

E
Educational organizations 26,
32
Employees' association 52
Employment taxes 13
Endowment fund 32
Estimated tax 13
Excess benefit transaction 61
Disqualified person 60, 62
Controlled entity, 35% 62
Family members 62
Substantial influence 62
Disregarded benefits 63
Donor advised funds 61, 62
Excise tax 60
Initial contracts 63
Reasonable compensation 63
Rebuttable presumption 63
Excise tax:
Black lung benefit trust 57
Lobbying expenditures 47
Political expenditures 47
Private foundations 31, 65
Exempt function 14
Exempt purposes 22
Exemption for terrorist
organization 5
Extensions of time 23

F
Facts and circumstances
test 33
Fair market value, estimate
of 17
Filing requirements 11
Annual information returns 11
Donee information return 16
Due date 14
Employment tax 13
Excise tax 31, 65
Political organization 14
Private foundations 12
Unrelated business income 13
Form 990-N 11
Forms 4
1023 4, 7, 8, 18, 23, 24, 26, 30,
46, 48
1023-EZ 4, 23
1024 4, 18, 48-53, 55-58
1040 14
1065 11
1120–POL 14
1128 22
2848 5, 7
4720 47
5578 28

5768 46
6069 57
8274 13
8282 16
8283 16
8300 18
8718 4, 5
8821 7
8871 14, 18
8872 14, 18
990 9, 11, 18, 46
990-BL 11, 57
990-EZ 11
990-PF 12, 31, 65
990-T 13
SS-4 5, 8
W–2 13
Fraternal beneficiary society 51
Fraternal societies 20, 51
Funeral benefit insurance 55

G
Gifts and contributions, public
charity 40
Governmental unit 32
Grant:
Distinguished from gross
receipts 40
Exclusion for unusual grant 36,
39
From public charity 35, 41
Grantor and contributor,
reliance on ruling 45
Gross receipts from
nonmembership sources 51
Group exemption letter 8

H
Health coverage
organization 58
High-risk health coverage
organization 58
Homeowners' association 48
Horticultural organization 49
Hospital 29, 32

I
Inactive organization 21
Industrial development 48
Instrumentalities 22
Insurance, organizations
providing 28

L
Labor organization 20, 49
Law, public interest 29
Legislative activity 46, 50
Listed transaction 60
Literary organizations 30
Loans, organizations
providing 29
Lobbying expenditures 46
Local benevolent life insurance
associations 55
Local employees'
association 52
Lodge system 51

M
Medical research
organization 32
Medicare and Medicaid
payments 35
Membership fee 35, 40
Modification of exemption 6
Mutual financial
organization 56
Mutual or cooperative
association 55

N
Notice:
Notice 2014–4 45

O
One-third support test 33
Organization assets 25
Dedication 25
Distribution 25
Organization Reference
Chart 69
Organizational changes 21

P
Penalties 13
Failure to allow public
inspection 20
Failure to disclose 17, 20, 21
Failure to file 13
Perpetual care organization 55
Political activity 21, 23, 48
Political organization:
Income tax return 14
Taxable income 14
Power of attorney 5
Preferred stock 56
Prevention of cruelty to children
or animals 30
Private delivery service 23
Private foundations 30
Private operating foundation 45
Private school 26
Prohibited tax shelter
transactions:
Entity managers 60
Entity managers excise tax 60
Listed transaction 60
Prohibited reportable
transactions 60
Subsequently listed
transaction 60
Tax-exempt entities 60
Public charity:
Gifts and contributions 40
Grant from 41
Section 509(a)(1) 31
Section 509(a)(2) 38
Section 509(a)(3) 41
Section 509(a)(4) 45
Support test 33, 38
Public inspection:
Annual return 18
Exemption applications 18
Forms 8871 and 8872 18
Public-interest law firm 29
Publications (See Tax help)
75

Publicly supported
organization 32, 33
Attraction of public support 33
Ten-percent-of-support 33

R
Racial composition 26
Racially nondiscriminatory
policy 26
Real estate board 49
Recognition of exemption,
application 23
Religious organizations 29
Requests other than
applications 5
Responsiveness test 43
Revocation of exemption 6
Ruling letter 6

S
Scholarship:
Private school 28

76

Scholarships 28
School, private 26
Scientific organizations 30
Section 501(c)(3) organizations:
Amateur athletic 30
Literary 30
Prevention of cruelty 30
Private foundations 30
Public charities 31
Qualifications 22
Religious 29
Scientific 30
Section 501(c)(3)
Organizations:
Charitable 28
Educational 26
Single entity 38
Social clubs 20, 50
Social welfare organization 20,
48
Specified organizations 42

Sports organization,
amateur 30
State-sponsored 58
High-risk health coverage
organization 58
Workers' compensation
reinsurance organization 59
Stock or commodity
exchange 50
Supplemental unemployment
benefit trust 53
Support 34, 35
Support test 33
Facts and circumstances 33
One-third 33
Public charity 38
Supporting organization 61

T
Tax help 66
Technical advice 7
Testing for public safety 45

Title-holding corporation 57

U
Unemployment benefit trust 53
Unrelated business income 13
Unusual grants 36, 39
User fee 5

V
Veterans' organization 56
Voluntary employees'
beneficiary association 52
Volunteer fire company 48

W
War veterans' organization 56
Withdrawal of application 6
Withholding information from
public 6
Workers' compensation
reinsurance organization 59

Publication 557 (1-2025)

