Publication 510

Contents

Excise Taxes

Future Developments

(Rev. December 2025)

(Including Fuel Tax
Credits and Refunds)
Section references are to the Internal Revenue Code unless otherwise
noted.

............ 2

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Excise Taxes Not Covered

......... 3

Chapter 1. Fuel Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Information Returns . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Registration Requirements . . . . . . . 5
Gasoline and Aviation Gasoline . . . . 5
Diesel Fuel and Kerosene . . . . . . . . 7
Diesel-Water Fuel Emulsion . . . . . . 10
Kerosene for Use in Aviation . . . . . 10
Surtax on Any Liquid Used in a
Fractional Ownership
Program Aircraft as Fuel . . . . . . 11
Certificate for Commercial
Aviation or Nontaxable Uses . . . 12
Other Fuels (Including
Alternative Fuels) . . . . . . . . . . 12
Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) . . . 12
Fuels Used on Inland Waterways . . . 13
Second Generation Biofuel Not
Used as Fuel . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Biodiesel Sold as But Not Used
as Fuel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Chapter 2. Fuel Tax Credits
and Refunds . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gasoline and Aviation Gasoline . . .
Undyed Diesel Fuel and Undyed
Kerosene (Other Than
Kerosene Used in Aviation) . . . .
Diesel-Water Fuel Emulsion . . . . . .
Kerosene for Use in Aviation . . . . .
Other Fuels (Including
Alternative Fuels) . . . . . . . . . .
Refunds or Payments of Second
Tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Definitions of Nontaxable Uses . . . .
Filing Claims . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chapter 3. Environmental Taxes . . . .
Tax on Petroleum . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tax on Chemicals (Other Than
ODCs) and on Imported
Chemical Substances . . . . . . .
Ozone-Depleting Chemicals
(ODCs) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chapter 4. Communications and
Air Transportation Taxes . . . . . .
Uncollected Tax Report . . . . . . . .
Communications Tax . . . . . . . . . .
Air Transportation Taxes . . . . . . . .

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Feb 5, 2026

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Chapter 5. Manufacturers Taxes . . . .
Taxable Event . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exemptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sport Fishing Equipment . . . . . . .
Bows, Quivers, Broadheads,
and Points . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Arrow Shafts . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Taxable Tires . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gas Guzzler Tax . . . . . . . . . . . .

Publication 510 (Rev. 12-2025) Catalog Number 15014I
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

14
14
15
15
16
17
17
18
20
24
24
24
24
26
26
25
27
30
30
31
32
32
32
32
33
33

Vaccines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Chapter 6. Retail Tax on Heavy
Trucks, Trailers, and Tractors . . . . 34
Chapter 7. Ship Passenger Tax . . . . . 37
Chapter 8. Foreign
Insurance Taxes

. . . . . . . . . . . 38

Chapter 9. Obligations Not in
Registered Form . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Chapter 10. Indoor Tanning
Services Tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Chapter 11. Patient-Centered
Outcomes Research Fee . . . . . . 39
Chapter 12. Repurchase of
Corporate Stock . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Chapter 13. Filing Form 720 . . . . . . . 40
Chapter 14. Payment of Taxes . . . . . 40
How To Make Deposits . . . . . . . . . 9
When To Make Deposits . . . . . . . . 41
Amount of Deposits . . . . . . . . . . 41
Chapter 15. Penalties and Interest . . . 42
Chapter 16. Examination and
Appeal Procedures . . . . . . . . . . 42
Chapter 17. Rulings Program . . . . . . 42
Chapter 18. How To Get Tax Help
Chapter 19. Appendix
Index

. . . 42

. . . . . . . . . . 45

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments
related to Pub. 510, such as legislation enacted
after it was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub510.
Pub. 510 updates. Pub. 510 isn’t updated annually; instead it’s only updated when there are
major changes in the tax law. If you need further
assistance see the Instructions for Forms 720,
8864, 4136, 6478, or Schedule 3 (Form 8849)
for the most recent updates.
Don’t claim the credits or payments for fuel
sold or used after the year the credits expire unless they’re extended again. Only one credit
may be taken for each amount of any fuel type.
Note: “IRS Nos.” refers to pre-printed numbers
on Form 720.
Caution: The credits for the section 40A, biodiesel credit, biodiesel mixture credit, renewable diesel mixture credit, agri-biodiesel mixture
credit, alternative fuels credit, and alternative
fuel mixtures credit, and the section 40B, sustainable aviation fuels (SAF) credit, expired for
fuels sold or used after December 31, 2024.
Congress may take additional legislative action
that impacts these credits. Don't claim the credits for fuels sold or used after 2024, unless the
credits are extended. For information on these
credits, see the March 2023 revision of Pub.
510.
2

What’s New
The One Big Beautiful Bill Act of 2025 (the
Act) made the following changes.
• Small agri-biodiesel producer credit
extension. The Act extended and modified the section 40A small agri-biodiesel
producer credit. The credit is extended
through December 31, 2026. Don't claim
the small agri-biodiesel producer credit for
fuel sold or used after 2026.
• Excise tax on remittance transfers. The
Act created new section 4475 which imposes an excise tax of 1% on remittance
transfers that occur after December 31,
2025. The IRS has provided deposit-related penalty relief applicable to the first,
second, and third calendar quarters of
2026. See Notice 2025-55.

• Sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) credit.

The Act terminated the section 6426(k)
credit for SAF mixtures, and it will no longer apply to any sale or use for any period
after September 30, 2025. The SAF mixture credit will no longer be claimed on
Form 720, Schedule C; Form 4136; 8864;
or Schedule 3 (Form 8849).

Inflation adjustments for 2026.
• Superfund petroleum tax (IRS No. 16
and 53). The section 4611(c)(2)(1)(A) tax
on imported petroleum products and domestic petroleum increased to $0.18 per
barrel.
• Transportation of persons by air (IRS
No. 26). The section 4261 tax on the
amount paid for each domestic segment of
taxable air transportation is increased to
$5.30.
• Use of international air travel facilities
(IRS No. 27). The section 4261 tax on the
amount paid for international flights is increased to $23.40 per person for flights
that begin or end in the United States. The
tax is increased to $11.70 per person for
domestic segments that begin or end in
Alaska or Hawaii (applies only to departures).
• Arrow shafts (IRS No. 106). The section
4161 tax on arrow shafts is increased to
$0.65 per arrow shaft.
See
Revenue
Procedure
2025-32
at
IRS.gov/irb/2025-45_IRB#REV-PROC-2025-32.

Reminders
Biodiesel and renewable diesel. The section
6426/6427 credits/refunds for mixtures of biodiesel, renewable diesel, and agri-biodiesel (allowed by section 6426(c)), expired for sales,
uses, or removals after 2024.
Alternative fuel credit and alternative fuel
mixture credit. The section 6426/6427 credits/refunds for alternative fuel and alternative
fuel mixtures (allowed by sections 6426(d) and
6426(e)), expired for sales, uses, or removals
after 2024.
Repurchase of corporate stock tax. The
section 4501 stock repurchase tax applies to repurchases of corporate stock after December

31, 2022. See Repurchase of Corporate Stock,
later.
Reducing your excise tax liability. For federal income tax purposes, reduce your section
4081 excise tax liability by the amount of excise
tax credit allowable under section 6426(c) or (e)
and your section 4041 excise tax liability by the
amount of your excise tax credit allowable under section 6426(d), in determining your deduction for those excise taxes or your cost of goods
sold deduction attributable to those excise
taxes.
Caution: Due to the IRS' acquiescence in a recent court case, the section 4611 tax on exported crude oil currently doesn’t apply. See AOD
2023-01, at IRS.gov/Actions-on-Decisions.
The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs
Act. Effective July 1, 2022, the Infrastructure
Investment and Jobs Act reinstates the section
4661 excise tax on chemicals (other than
ODCs) (IRS No. 54) and the section 4671 tax
on imported chemical substances (IRS No. 17)
(they previously expired on December 31,
1995). See the Instructions for Form 6627, and
Environmental Taxes, later.
The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the
Act) made the following changes. Effective
January 1, 2023, the Act reinstates and increases the Hazardous Substance Superfund financing rate (petroleum Superfund tax rate) on
domestic crude oil and imported petroleum
products (the taxes previously expired on December 31,1995). This makes the total section
4611 tax rate on domestic crude oil and imported petroleum products the sum of this reinstated Hazardous Substance Superfund financing
rate (petroleum Superfund tax rate) and the Oil
Spill Liability Trust Fund financing rate (petroleum oil spill tax rate). See the Instructions for
Form 6627, and Environmental Taxes, later.
Disregarded entities and qualified subchapter S subsidiaries. Qualified subchapter S
subsidiaries (QSubs) and eligible single-owner
disregarded entities are treated as separate entities for excise tax and reporting purposes.
QSubs and eligible single-owner disregarded
entities must pay and report excise taxes (other
than IRS Nos. 31, 51, and 117); register for
most excise tax activities; and claim any refunds, credits, and payments under the entity's
employer identification number (EIN). These actions can't take place under the owner's taxpayer identification number (TIN). Some QSubs
and disregarded entities may already have an
EIN. However, if you're unsure, please call the
IRS Business and Specialty Tax line at
800-829-4933.
Generally, QSubs and eligible single-owner
disregarded entities will continue to be treated
as disregarded entities for other federal tax purposes (other than employment taxes).
For more information on these regulations,
see Treasury Decisions (T.D.) 9356, T.D. 9462,
and T.D. 9596. You can find T.D. 9356 of Internal
Revenue Bulletin (I.R.B.) 2007-39 at
IRS.gov/irb/2007-39_IRB#TD-9356;
T.D. 9462, I.R.B. 2009-42, at
IRS.gov/irb/2009-42_IRB#TD-9462;
and T.D. 9596, I.R.B. 2012-30, at
IRS.gov/irb/2012-30_IRB#TD-9596.
Photographs of missing children. The Internal Revenue Service is a proud partner with the
Publication 510 (12-2025)

National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children (NCMEC). Photographs of missing
children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise
be blank. You can help bring these children
home by looking at the photographs and calling
1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
This publication covers the excise taxes for
which you may be liable and which are reported
on Form 720 and other forms. It also covers fuel
tax credits and refunds. For information on fuel
credits against income tax see the instructions
for Forms 4136, 6478, or 8864. Only one credit
may be taken for each amount of any fuel type.

720 Quarterly Federal Excise Tax Return
720

720-X Amended Quarterly Federal Excise
Tax Return
720-X

730 Monthly Tax Return for Wagers
730

Getting answers to your tax questions.
If you have a tax question not answered by this
publication or the How To Get Tax Help section
at the end of this publication, go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the
search feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download
current and prior-year forms, instructions, and
publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and
publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year
forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon
as possible. Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
509 Tax Calendars
509

Form (and Instructions)
11-C Occupational Tax and Registration
Return for Wagering
11-C

637 Application for Registration (For
Certain Excise Tax Activities)
637

Publication 510 (12-2025)

•

1363 Export Exemption Certificate
1363

2290 Heavy Highway Vehicle Use Tax
Return

•

2290(SP) Declaración del Impuesto sobre
el Uso de Vehículos Pesados en las
Carreteras

•

2290

2290(SP)

4136 Credit for Federal Tax Paid on Fuels
4136

6197 Gas Guzzler Tax

•

6197

6478 Biofuel Producer Credit
6478

6627 Environmental Taxes
6627

Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or you can write to
the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and
Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW,
IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments and
suggestions as we revise our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.

• Notice 2024-6 (Sustainable Aviation Fuel

7208 Excise Tax on Repurchase of
Corporate Stock

•

7208

8849 Claim for Refund of Excise Taxes,
and Schedules 1–3, 5, 6, and 8
8849

8864 Biodiesel, Renewable Diesel, or
Sustainable Aviation Fuels Credit
8864

Information Returns
• Form 720-TO, Terminal Operator Report
• Form 720-CS, Carrier Summary Report
Guidance
• Notice 2005-4 (fuel tax), I.R.B. 2005-2, at
IRS.gov/irb/2005-02_IRB#NOT-2005-4.
• Notice 2005-62 (biodiesel and aviation-grade kerosene), I.R.B. 2005-35, at
IRS.gov/irb/2005-35_IRB#NOT-2005-62.
• Notice 2005-80 (LUST, kerosene, credit
card issuers, mechanical dye injection),
I.R.B. 2005-46, at IRS.gov/irb/
2005-46_IRB#NOT-2005-80.
• Notice 2006-92 (alternative fuels mixtures),
I.R.B. 2006-43, at IRS.gov/irb/
2006-43_IRB#NOT-2006-92.
• Notice 2008-110 (biodiesel, cellulosic biofuel), I.R.B. 2008-51, at IRS.gov/irb/
2008-51_IRB#NOT-2008-110.
• Notice 2010-68 (Alaska dyed diesel exemption), I.R.B. 2010-44, at IRS.gov/irb/
2010-44_IRB#NOT-2010-68.
• Notice 2012-27 (fractional aircraft fuel surtax), I.R.B. 2012-17, at IRS.gov/irb/
2012-17_IRB#NOT-2012-27.
• T.D. 9621 (indoor tanning), I.R.B. 2013-28,
at IRS.gov/irb/2013-28_IRB#TD-9621.
• Revenue Ruling 2016-03 (foreign reinsurance), I.R.B. 2016-3, at IRS.gov/irb/
2016-03_IRB#RR-2016-03.
• Revenue Ruling 2018-02 (butane mixture)
at IRS.gov/irb/2018-02_IRB#RR-2018-02.
• Notice 2023-6 (Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Credit) at IRS.gov/irb/
2023-02_IRB#NOT-2023-6 and other information related to the credit at IRS.gov/
Credits-Deductions/Businesses/
Sustainable-Aviation-Fuel-Credit
• Action on Decision 2023-1, 2023-10 I.R.B.
502, related to Trafigura Trading LLC v.
United States, 29 F.4th 286 (5th Cir. 2022)
available at IRS.gov/Actions-on-Decisions.

•

Credit, updated certificate and safe harbor), I.R.B. 2024-2, at IRS.gov/irb/
2024-02_IRB#NOT-2024-6.
Notice 2024-37 (Sustainable Aviation Fuel
credit, additional safe harbors), I.R.B.
2024-21, at IRS.gov/irb/
2024-21_IRB#NOT-2024-37.
T.D. 10002 (excise tax on repurchase of
corporate stock), I.R.B. 2024-29, at
IRS.gov/irb/2024-29_IRB#TD-10002.
Notice 2024-49 Clean Fuel Production
Registration Credit; Registration, at
IRS.gov/irb/2024-26_IRB#NOT-2024-49.
Notice 2024-74 (Sustainable Aviation Fuel
Credit, 40BSAF-GREET 2024), I.R.B.
2024-45, at IRS.gov/irb/
2024-45_IRB#NOT-2024-74.
Revenue Procedure 2025-32 (inflation adjustments) at IRS.gov/irb/
2025-45_IRB#REV-PROC-2025-32.
Notice 2025-55 (Penalty Relief for Remittance Transfer Providers), IRB 2025-43, at
IRS.gov/irb/2025-43_IRB#NOT-2025-55.

Excise Taxes
Not Covered
In addition to the taxes discussed in this publication, you may have to report certain other excise taxes.
For tax forms relating to alcohol, firearms,
and tobacco, visit the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax
and Trade Bureau website at TTB.gov.
Heavy highway vehicle use tax. You report
the federal excise tax on the use of certain
trucks, truck tractors, and buses used on public
highways on Form 2290, Heavy Highway Vehicle Use Tax Return. The tax applies to highway
motor vehicles with a taxable gross weight of
55,000 pounds or more. Vans, pickup trucks,
panel trucks, and similar trucks generally aren’t
subject to this tax.
Note. A Spanish version (Formulario 2290
(sp)) is also available.
Registration of vehicles. Generally, you must
prove that you paid your heavy highway vehicle
use tax to register your taxable vehicle with your
state motor vehicle department or to enter the
United States in a Canadian or Mexican registered taxable vehicle. Generally, a copy of
Schedule 1 (Form 2290) is stamped by the IRS
and returned to you as proof of payment.
Tip: If you have questions on Form 2290, see
its separate instructions, or you can call the
Form 2290 call site at 866-699-4096 (toll free)
from the United States, and 859-320-3581 (not
toll free) from Canada and Mexico. The hours of
service are 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Eastern time.
Wagering tax and occupational tax. The information on wagering tax can be found in the
Instructions for Form 730, and Form 11-C.

3

Part One.
Fuel Taxes and
Fuel Tax Credits
and Refunds

1.
Fuel Taxes
Definitions
Excise taxes are imposed on all the following
fuels.
• Gasoline, including aviation gasoline and
gasoline blendstocks.
• Diesel fuel, including dyed diesel fuel.
• Diesel-water fuel emulsion.
• Kerosene, including dyed kerosene and
kerosene used in aviation.
• Other fuels (including alternative fuels).
• Compressed natural gas (CNG).
• Fuels used in commercial transportation on
inland waterways.
• Any liquid used in a fractional ownership
program aircraft as fuel.
The following terms are used throughout the
discussion of fuel taxes. Other terms are defined in the discussion of the specific fuels to
which they pertain.
Agri-biodiesel. Agri-biodiesel means biodiesel
derived solely from virgin oils, including esters
derived from virgin vegetable oils from corn,
soybeans, sunflower seeds, cottonseeds, canola, crambe, rapeseeds, safflowers, flaxseeds,
rice bran, mustard seeds, and camelina, and
from animal fats.
Approved terminal or refinery. This is a terminal operated by a registrant that is a terminal
operator or a refinery operated by a registrant
that is a refiner.
Biodiesel. Biodiesel means the monoalkyl esters of long chain fatty acids derived from plant
or animal matter that meet the registration requirements for fuels and fuel additives established by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) under section 211 of the Clean Air Act,
and the requirements of the American Society
of Testing Materials (ASTM) D6751.
Blended taxable fuel. This means any taxable
fuel produced outside the bulk transfer/terminal
system by mixing taxable fuel on which excise
tax has been imposed and any other liquid on
4

Chapter 1 defines the types of fuel, taxable events, and exemptions or
exceptions to the fuel taxes. Chapter 2 provides information on, and
definitions of, the nontaxable uses and explains how to make a claim.

which excise tax hasn’t been imposed. This
doesn't include a mixture removed or sold during the calendar quarter if all such mixtures removed or sold by the blender contain less than
400 gallons of a liquid on which the tax hasn’t
been imposed.
Blender. This is the person that produces blended taxable fuel.
Bulk transfer. This is the transfer of taxable
fuel by pipeline or vessel.
Bulk transfer/terminal system. This is the
taxable fuel distribution system consisting of refineries, pipelines, vessels, and terminals. Fuel
in the supply tank of any engine, or in any tank
car, railcar, trailer, truck, or other equipment
suitable for ground transportation isn't in the
bulk transfer/terminal system.
Diesel-water fuel emulsion. A diesel-water
fuel emulsion means an emulsion at least 14%
of which is water. The emulsion additive used to
produce the fuel must be registered by a U.S.
manufacturer with the EPA under section 211 of
the Clean Air Act as in effect on March 31,
2003.
Dry lease aircraft exchange. See Surtax on
Any Liquid Used in a Fractional Ownership Program Aircraft as Fuel, later.
Enterer. This is the importer of record (under
customs law) for the taxable fuel. However, if
the importer of record is acting as an agent,
such as a customs broker, the person for whom
the agent is acting is the enterer. If there is no
importer of record, the owner at the time of entry into the United States is the enterer.
Entry. Taxable fuel is entered into the United
States when it's brought into the United States
and applicable customs law requires that it be
entered for consumption, use, or warehousing.
This doesn't apply to fuel brought into Puerto
Rico (which is part of the U.S. customs territory), but does apply to fuel brought into the
United States from Puerto Rico.
Fractional ownership aircraft program and
fractional program aircraft. See Fractional
program aircraft., later.
Measurement of taxable fuel. Volumes of
taxable fuel can be measured on the basis of
actual volumetric gallons or gallons adjusted to
60 degrees Fahrenheit.

Chapter 1

Fuel Taxes

Other fuels. See Other Fuels (Including Alternative Fuels), later.
Pipeline operator. This is the person that operates a pipeline within the bulk transfer/terminal system.
Position holder. This is the person that holds
the inventory position in the taxable fuel in the
terminal, as reflected in the records of the terminal operator. You hold the inventory position
when you have a contractual agreement with
the terminal operator for the use of the storage
facilities and terminaling services for the taxable
fuel. A terminal operator that owns taxable fuel
in its terminal is a position holder.
Rack. This is a mechanism capable of delivering fuel into a means of transport other than a
pipeline or vessel.
Refiner. This is any person that owns, operates, or otherwise controls a refinery.
Refinery. This is a facility used to produce taxable fuel and from which taxable fuel may be removed by pipeline, by vessel, or at a rack. However, this term doesn't include a facility where
only blended fuel, and no other type of fuel, is
produced. For this purpose, blended fuel is any
mixture that would be blended taxable fuel if
produced outside the bulk transfer/terminal system.
Registrant. This is a taxable fuel registrant
(see Registration Requirements, later).
Removal. This is any physical transfer of taxable fuel. It also means any use of taxable fuel
other than as a material in the production of taxable fuel or other fuels. However, taxable fuel
isn't removed when it evaporates or is otherwise
lost or destroyed.
Sale. For taxable fuel not in a terminal, this is
the transfer of title to, or substantial incidents of
ownership in, taxable fuel to the buyer for
money, services, or other property. For taxable
fuel in a terminal, this is the transfer of the inventory position if the transferee becomes the
position holder for that taxable fuel.
Second generation biofuel. This is any liquid
fuel derived by, or from, qualified feedstocks,
and meets the registration requirements for
fuels and fuel additives established by the EPA
under section 211 of the Clean Air Act (42
U.S.C. 7545). It also includes certain liquid fuel
that is derived by, or from, any cultivated algae,
Publication 510 (12-2025)

cyanobacteria, or lemna. It isn't alcohol of less
than 150 proof (disregard any added denaturants). See Form 6478 for more information.
State. This includes any state, any of its political subdivisions, the District of Columbia, and
the American Red Cross. An Indian tribal government is treated as a state only if transactions
involve the exercise of an essential tribal government function.
Taxable fuel. This means gasoline, diesel fuel,
and kerosene.
Terminal. This is a storage and distribution facility supplied by pipeline or vessel, and from
which taxable fuel may be removed at a rack. It
doesn't include a facility at which gasoline
blendstocks are used in the manufacture of
products other than finished gasoline if no gasoline is removed from the facility. A terminal
doesn't include any facility where finished gasoline, diesel fuel, or kerosene is stored if the facility is operated by a registrant and all such taxable fuel stored at the facility has been
previously taxed upon removal from a refinery
or terminal.
Terminal operator. This is any person that
owns, operates, or otherwise controls a terminal.
Throughputter. This is any person that is a position holder or that owns taxable fuel within the
bulk transfer/terminal system (other than in a
terminal).
Vessel operator. This is the person that operates a vessel within the bulk transfer/terminal
system. However, vessel doesn't include a
deep-draft ocean-going vessel.

Information Returns
Form 720-TO and Form 720-CS are information
returns used to report monthly receipts and disbursements of liquid products. A liquid product
is any liquid transported into storage at a terminal or delivered out of a terminal. For a list of
products, see the product code table in the Instructions for Forms 720-TO and 720-CS.
The returns are due the last day of the
month following the month in which the transaction occurs. Generally, these returns can be
filed on paper or electronically. For information
on filing electronically, see Pub. 3536, Motor
Fuel Excise Tax EDI Guide. Pub. 3536 is only
available on the IRS website.
Form 720-TO. This information return is used
by terminal operators to report receipts and disbursements of all liquid products to and from all
approved terminals. Each terminal operator
must file a separate form for each approved terminal.
Form 720-CS. This information return must be
filed by bulk transport carriers (barges, vessels,
and pipelines) who receive liquid product from
an approved terminal or deliver liquid product to
an approved terminal.

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Registration
Requirements
The following discussion applies to excise tax
registration requirements for activities relating to
fuels only. See Form 637 for other persons who
must register and for more information about
registration.
Persons that are required to be registered.
You're required to be registered if you're a:
• Blender;
• Enterer;
• Pipeline operator;
• Position holder;
• Refiner;
• Terminal operator;
• Vessel operator;
• Producer or importer of alcohol, biodiesel,
agri-biodiesel, and renewable diesel; or
• Producer or importer of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF);
• Producer of clean transportation fuel which
is SAF;
• Producer of clean transportation fuel which
is not SAF; or
• Producer of cellulosic or second generation biofuel.
Persons that may register. You may, but
aren’t required to, register if you're a:
• Feedstock user,
• Industrial user,
• Throughputter that isn't a position holder,
• Ultimate vendor,
• Diesel-water fuel emulsion producer,
• Credit card issuer, or
• Alternative fuel claimant.
Ultimate vendors, credit card issuers, and alternative fuel claimants don’t need to be registered
to buy or sell fuel. However, they must be registered to file claims for certain sales and uses of
fuel. See Form 637 for more information.
Taxable fuel registrant. This is an enterer, an
industrial user, a refiner, a terminal operator, or
a throughputter who received a letter of registration under the excise tax registration provisions
and whose registration hasn’t been revoked or
suspended. The term “registrant” as used in the
discussions of these fuels means a taxable fuel
registrant.
Additional information. See the Form 637
instructions for the information you must submit
when you apply for registration.
Failure to register or reregister. The penalty
for failure to register or reregister if you must
register or reregister, unless due to reasonable
cause, is $10,000 for the initial failure, and then
$1,000 each day thereafter you fail to register or
reregister.

Gasoline and Aviation
Gasoline
Gasoline. Gasoline means all products commonly or commercially known or sold as gasoline with an octane rating of 75 or more that are
Chapter 1

Fuel Taxes

suitable for use as a motor fuel. Gasoline includes any gasoline blend other than:
• Qualified ethanol and methanol fuel (at
least 85% of the blend consists of alcohol
produced from coal, including peat);
• Partially exempt ethanol and methanol fuel
(at least 85% of the blend consists of alcohol produced from natural gas); or
• Denatured alcohol.
Gasoline also includes gasoline blendstocks,
discussed later.
Aviation gasoline. This means all special
grades of gasoline suitable for use in aviation
reciprocating engines and covered by ASTM
specification D910 or military specification
MIL-G-5572.

Taxable Events
The tax on gasoline is $0.184 per gallon. The
tax on aviation gasoline is $0.194 per gallon.
When used in a fractional ownership program
aircraft, gasoline is also subject to a surtax of
$0.141 per gallon. See Surtax on Any Liquid
Used in a Fractional Ownership Program Aircraft as Fuel, later.
Tax is imposed on the removal, entry, or sale
of gasoline. Each of these events is discussed
later. Also, see the special rules that apply to
Gasoline Blendstocks, later.
If the tax is paid on the gasoline in more than
one event, a refund or payment may be allowed
for the “second” tax paid. See Refunds or Payments of Second Tax in chapter 2.
Removal from terminal. All removals of gasoline at a terminal rack are taxable. The position
holder for that gasoline is liable for the tax.
Two-party exchanges. In a two-party exchange, the receiving person, not the delivering
person, is liable for the tax imposed on the removal of taxable fuel from the terminal at the
terminal rack. A two-party exchange means a
transaction (other than a sale) where the delivering person and receiving person are both taxable fuel registrants and all of the following apply.
• The transaction includes a transfer from
the delivering person, who holds the inventory position for the taxable fuel in the terminal, as reflected in the records of the terminal operator.
• The exchange transaction occurs before or
at the same time as removal across the
rack by the receiving person.
• The terminal operator in its records treats
the receiving person as the person that removes the product across the terminal rack
for purposes of reporting the transaction on
Form 720-TO.
• The transaction is subject to a written contract.
Terminal operator's liability. The terminal
operator is jointly and severally liable for the tax
if the position holder is a person other than the
terminal operator and isn't a registrant.
However, a terminal operator meeting all the
following conditions at the time of the removal
won’t be liable for the tax.
• The terminal operator is a registrant.
5

• The terminal operator has an unexpired

notification certificate (discussed later)
from the position holder.
• The terminal operator has no reason to believe any information on the certificate is
false.

Removal from refinery. The removal of gasoline from a refinery is taxable if the removal
meets either of the following conditions.
• It's made by bulk transfer and the refiner,
the owner of the gasoline immediately before the removal, or the operator of the
pipeline or vessel isn't a registrant.
• It's made at the refinery rack.
The refiner is liable for the tax.
Exception. The tax doesn't apply to a removal of gasoline at the refinery rack if all the
following requirements are met.
• The gasoline is removed from an approved
refinery not served by pipeline (other than
for receiving crude oil) or vessel.
• The gasoline is received at a facility operated by a registrant and located within the
bulk transfer/terminal system.
• The removal from the refinery is by railcar.
• The same person operates the refinery
and the facility at which the gasoline is received.
Entry into the United States. The entry of
gasoline into the United States is taxable if the
entry meets either of the following conditions.
• It's made by bulk transfer and the enterer
or the operator of the pipeline or vessel
isn't a registrant.
• It isn't made by bulk transfer.
The enterer is liable for the tax.
Importer of record's liability. The importer of record is jointly and severally liable for
the tax with the enterer if the importer of record
isn't the enterer of the taxable fuel and the enterer isn't a taxable fuel registrant.
However, an importer of record meeting both
of the following conditions at the time of the entry won’t be liable for the tax.
• The importer of record has an unexpired
notification certificate (discussed in Customs bond below) from the enterer.
• The importer of record has no reason to
believe any information in the certificate is
false.
Customs bond. The customs bond won’t
be charged for the tax imposed on the entry of
the gasoline if at the time of entry the surety has
an unexpired notification certificate from the enterer and has no reason to believe any information in the certificate is false.
Removal from a terminal by unregistered
position holder or unregistered pipeline or
vessel operator. The removal by bulk transfer
of gasoline from a terminal is taxable if the position holder for the gasoline or the operator of
the pipeline or vessel isn't a registrant. The position holder is liable for the tax. The terminal
operator is jointly and severally liable for the tax
if the position holder is a person other than the
terminal operator.

6

Bulk transfers not received at approved terminal or refinery. Tax is imposed if:
1. Gasoline is removed by bulk transfer from
a terminal or refinery, or entered by bulk
transfer into the United States;
2. No tax was previously imposed (as discussed earlier); or
3. Upon removal from the pipeline or vessel,
the gasoline isn't received at an approved
terminal or refinery (or at another pipeline
or vessel).
The owner of the gasoline when it's removed
from the pipeline or vessel is liable for the tax.
However, an owner meeting all the following
conditions at the time of the removal won’t be liable for the tax.
• The owner is a registrant.
• The owner has an unexpired notification
certificate (discussed later) from the operator of the terminal or refinery where the
gasoline is received.
• The owner has no reason to believe any information on the certificate is false.
The operator of the facility where the gasoline is
received is liable for the tax if the owner meets
these conditions. The operator is jointly and
severally liable if the owner doesn't meet these
conditions.
Sales to unregistered person. The sale of
gasoline located within the bulk transfer/terminal system to a person that isn't a registrant is
taxable if tax wasn't previously imposed under
any of the events discussed earlier.
The seller is liable for the tax. However, a
seller meeting all the following conditions at the
time of the sale won’t be liable for the tax.
• The seller is a registrant.
• The seller has an unexpired notification
certificate (discussed later) from the buyer.
• The seller has no reason to believe any information on the certificate is false.
The buyer of the gasoline is liable for the tax if
the seller meets these conditions. The buyer is
jointly and severally liable if the seller doesn't
meet these conditions.
Exception. The tax doesn't apply to a sale
if all of the following apply.
• The buyer's principal place of business
isn't in the United States.
• The sale occurs as the fuel is delivered into
a transport vessel with a capacity of at
least 20,000 barrels of fuel.
• The seller is a registrant and the exporter
of record.
• The fuel was exported.
Removal or sale of blended gasoline. The
removal or sale of blended gasoline by the blender is taxable. See Blended taxable fuel, earlier.
The blender is liable for the tax. The tax is
figured on the number of gallons not previously
subject to the tax on gasoline.
Persons who blend alcohol with gasoline to
produce an alcohol fuel mixture outside the bulk
transfer/terminal system must pay the gasoline
tax on the volume of alcohol in the mixture. See
Form 720 to report this tax. You must also be
registered with the IRS as a blender. See Form
637.
Chapter 1

Fuel Taxes

However, if an untaxed liquid is sold as
taxed taxable fuel and that untaxed liquid is
used to produce blended taxable fuel, the person that sold the untaxed liquid is jointly and
severally liable for the tax imposed on the
blender's sale or removal of the blended taxable
fuel.
Notification certificate. The notification certificate is used to notify a person of the registration status of the registrant. A copy of the registrant's letter of registration can't be used as a
notification certificate. A model notification certificate is shown in the Appendix as Model Certificate C. A notification certificate must contain
all information necessary to complete the
model.
The certificate may be included as part of
any business records normally used for a sale.
A certificate expires on the earlier of the date
the registrant provides a new certificate, or the
date the recipient of the certificate is notified
that the registrant's registration has been revoked or suspended. The registrant must provide a new certificate if any information on a
certificate has changed.
Additional persons liable. When the person
liable for the tax willfully fails to pay the tax, joint
and several liability for the tax is imposed on:
• Any officer, employee, or agent of the person who is under a duty to ensure the payment of the tax and who willfully fails to
perform that duty; or
• Anyone who willfully causes the person to
fail to pay the tax.

Gasoline Blendstocks
Caution: Gasoline blendstocks may be subject
to $0.001 per gallon LUST tax as discussed below.
Gasoline includes gasoline blendstocks.
The previous discussions apply to these blendstocks. However, if certain conditions are met,
the removal, entry, or sale of gasoline blendstocks are taxed at $0.001 per gallon or aren’t
subject to the excise tax. If these conditions
aren’t met, gasoline blendstocks are generally
taxed as gasoline. However, transmix containing gasoline is taxed as a diesel fuel. See Diesel Fuel and Kerosene, later.
Blendstocks. Gasoline blendstocks are:
• Alkylate,
• Butane,
• Butene,
• Catalytically cracked gasoline,
• Coker gasoline,
• Ethyl tertiary butyl ether (ETBE),
• Hexane,
• Hydrocrackate,
• Isomerate,
• Methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE),
• Mixed xylene (not including any separated
isomer of xylene),
• Natural gasoline,
• Pentane,
• Pentane mixture,
• Polymer gasoline,
• Raffinate,
• Reformate,
• Straight-run gasoline,
Publication 510 (12-2025)

• Straight-run naphtha,
• Tertiary amyl methyl ether (TAME),
• Tertiary butyl alcohol (gasoline grade)
(TBA),

• Thermally cracked gasoline,
• Toluene, and
• Transmix containing gasoline.
However, gasoline blendstocks don't include
any product that can't be used without further
processing in the production of finished gasoline.
Not used to produce finished gasoline.
Gasoline blendstocks not used to produce finished gasoline aren’t taxable (other than LUST)
if the following conditions are met.
Removals and entries not connected to
sale. Nonbulk removals and entries aren’t taxable if the person otherwise liable for the tax (position holder, refiner, or enterer) is a registrant.
Removals and entries connected to sale.
Nonbulk removals and entries aren’t taxable if
the person otherwise liable for the tax (position
holder, refiner, or enterer) is a registrant, and at
the time of the sale, meets the following requirements.
• The person has an unexpired certificate
from the buyer.
• The person has no reason to believe any
information in the certificate is false.
Sales after removal or entry. The sale of
a gasoline blendstock that wasn't subject to tax
on its nonbulk removal or entry, as discussed
earlier, is taxable. The seller is liable for the tax.
However, the sale isn't taxable if, at the time of
the sale, the seller meets the following requirements.
• The seller has an unexpired certificate (discussed below) from the buyer.
• The seller has no reason to believe any information in the certificate is false.
Certificate of buyer. The certificate from the
buyer certifies the gasoline blendstocks won’t
be used to produce finished gasoline. The certificate may be included as part of any business
records normally used for a sale. A model certificate is shown in the Appendix as Model Certificate D. The certificate must contain all information necessary to complete the model.
A certificate expires on the earliest of the following dates.
• The date 1 year after the effective date (not
earlier than the date signed) of the certificate.
• The date a new certificate is provided to
the seller.
• The date the seller is notified that the buyer's right to provide a certificate has been
withdrawn.
The buyer must provide a new certificate if any
information on a certificate has changed.
The IRS may withdraw the buyer's right to
provide a certificate if that buyer uses the gasoline blendstocks in the production of finished
gasoline or resells the blendstocks without getting a certificate from its buyer.
Received at approved terminal or refinery.
The nonbulk removal or entry of gasoline blendstocks received at an approved terminal or rePublication 510 (12-2025)

finery isn't taxable if the person otherwise liable
for the tax (position holder, refiner, or enterer)
meets all the following requirements.
• The person is a registrant.
• The person has an unexpired notification
certificate from the operator of the terminal
or refinery where the gasoline blendstocks
are received.
• The person has no reason to believe any
information on the certificate is false.
Bulk transfers to registered industrial user.
The removal of gasoline blendstocks from a
pipeline or vessel isn't taxable (other than
LUST) if the blendstocks are received by a registrant that is an industrial user. An industrial
user is any person that receives gasoline blendstocks by bulk transfer for its own use in the
manufacture of any product other than finished
gasoline.
Credits or refunds. A credit or refund of the
gasoline tax may be allowable if gasoline is
used for a nontaxable purpose or exempt use.
For more information, see Fuel Tax Credits and
Refunds in chapter 2.

Diesel Fuel and
Kerosene
Generally, diesel fuel and kerosene are taxed in
the same manner as gasoline (discussed earlier). However, special rules (discussed under
Alaska and Feedstocks) apply to dyed diesel
fuel and dyed kerosene, and to undyed diesel
fuel and undyed kerosene sold or used in
Alaska for certain nontaxable uses and undyed
kerosene used for a feedstock purpose.

Transmix. Transmix means a by-product of
refined products created by the mixing of different specification products during pipeline transportation.
Kerosene. This means any of the following liquids.
• One of the two grades of kerosene (No.
1-K and No. 2-K) covered by ASTM specification D3699.
• Kerosene-type jet fuel covered by ASTM
specification D1655 or military specification MIL-DTL-5624T (Grade JP-5) or
MIL-DTL-83133E (Grade JP-8). See Kerosene for Use in Aviation, later.
However, kerosene doesn't include excluded
liquid, discussed earlier.
Kerosene also includes any liquid that would
be described above but for the presence of a
dye of the type used to dye kerosene for a nontaxable use.
Diesel-powered highway vehicle. This is any
self-propelled vehicle designed to carry a load
over public highways (whether or not also designed to perform other functions) and propelled by a diesel-powered engine. Specially designed mobile machinery for nontransportation
functions and vehicles specially designed for
off-highway transportation aren’t generally considered diesel-powered highway vehicles. For
more information about these vehicles and for
information about vehicles not considered highway vehicles, see Off-highway business use
(No. 2) in chapter 2.
Diesel-powered train. This is any diesel-powered equipment or machinery that rides on rails.
The term includes a locomotive, work train,
switching engine, and track maintenance machine.

Diesel fuel. Diesel fuel means:
• Any liquid that without further processing
or blending is suitable for use as a fuel in a
diesel-powered highway vehicle or train; or
• Transmix.

Taxable Events

A liquid is suitable for this use if the liquid
has practical and commercial fitness for use in
the propulsion engine of a diesel-powered highway vehicle or diesel-powered train. A liquid
may possess this practical and commercial fitness even though the specified use isn't the
predominant use of the liquid. However, a liquid
doesn't possess this practical and commercial
fitness solely by reason of its possible or rare
use as a fuel in the propulsion engine of a diesel-powered highway vehicle or diesel-powered
train. Diesel fuel doesn't include gasoline, kerosene, excluded liquid, No. 5 and No. 6 fuel oils
covered by ASTM specification D396, or F-76
(Fuel Naval Distillate) covered by military specification MIL-F-16884.

If the tax is paid on the diesel fuel or kerosene in more than one event, a refund or payment may be allowed for the “second” tax paid.
See Refunds or Payments of Second Tax in
chapter 2.

Excluded liquid. An excluded liquid is either of
the following.
1. A liquid that contains less than 4% normal
paraffins.
2. A liquid with all the following properties.
a. Distillation range of 125 degrees Fahrenheit or less.
b. Sulfur content of 10 ppm or less.
c. Minimum color of +27 Saybolt.
Chapter 1

Fuel Taxes

The tax on diesel fuel and kerosene is $0.244
per gallon. It's imposed on the removal, entry, or
sale of diesel fuel and kerosene. Each of these
events is discussed later. Only the $0.001 LUST
tax applies to dyed diesel fuel and dyed kerosene, discussed later.

Use in certain intercity and local buses.
Dyed diesel fuel and dyed kerosene can't be
used in certain intercity and local buses. A claim
for $0.17 per gallon may be made by the registered ultimate vendor (under certain conditions)
or the ultimate purchaser for undyed diesel fuel
or undyed kerosene sold for use in certain intercity or local buses. An intercity or local bus is a
bus engaged in furnishing (for compensation)
passenger land transportation available to the
general public. The bus must be engaged in
one of the following activities.
• Scheduled transportation along regular
routes regardless of the size of the bus.
• Nonscheduled transportation if the seating
capacity of the bus is at least 20 adults (not
including the driver).
7

A bus is available to the general public if the bus
is available for hire to more than a limited number of persons, groups, or organizations.
Removal from terminal. All removals of diesel
fuel and kerosene at a terminal rack are taxable.
The position holder for that fuel is liable for the
tax.
Two-party exchanges. In a two-party exchange, the receiving person, not the delivering
person, is liable for the tax imposed on the removal of taxable fuel from the terminal at the
terminal rack. A two-party exchange means a
transaction (other than a sale) where the delivering person and receiving person are both taxable fuel registrants and all of the following apply.
• The transaction includes a transfer from
the delivering person, who holds the inventory position for the taxable fuel in the terminal as reflected in the records of the terminal operator.
• The exchange transaction occurs before or
at the same time as completion of removal
across the rack by the receiving person.
• The terminal operator in its records treats
the receiving person as the person that removes the product across the terminal rack
for purposes of reporting the transaction on
Form 720-TO.
• The transaction is subject to a written contract.
Terminal operator's liability. The terminal
operator is jointly and severally liable for the tax
if the terminal operator provides any person with
any bill of lading, shipping paper, or similar
document indicating that diesel fuel or kerosene
is dyed. See Dyed Diesel Fuel and Dyed Kerosene, later.
The terminal operator is jointly and severally
liable for the tax if the position holder is a person other than the terminal operator and isn't a
registrant. However, a terminal operator won’t
be liable for the tax in this situation if, at the time
of the removal, the following conditions are met.
• The terminal operator is a registrant.
• The terminal operator has an unexpired
notification certificate (discussed under
Gasoline) from the position holder.
• The terminal operator has no reason to believe any information on the certificate is
false.
Removal from refinery. The removal of diesel
fuel or kerosene from a refinery is taxable if the
removal meets either of the following conditions.
• It's made by bulk transfer and the refiner,
the owner of the fuel immediately before
the removal, or the operator of the pipeline
or vessel isn't a registrant.
• It's made at the refinery rack.
The refiner is liable for the tax.
Exception. The tax doesn't apply to a removal of diesel fuel or kerosene at the refinery
rack if all the following conditions are met.
1. The diesel fuel or kerosene is removed
from an approved refinery not served by
pipeline (other than for receiving crude oil)
or vessel.

2. The diesel fuel or kerosene is received at a
facility operated by a registrant and located within the bulk transfer/terminal system.
3. The removal from the refinery is by:
a. Railcar and the same person operates
the refinery and the facility at which
the diesel fuel or kerosene is received; or
b. For diesel fuel only, a trailer or semitrailer used exclusively to transport
the diesel fuel from a refinery (described in (1)) to a facility (described in
(2)) less than 20 miles from the refinery.
Entry into the United States. The entry of
diesel fuel or kerosene into the United States is
taxable if the entry meets either of the following
conditions.
• It's made by bulk transfer and the enterer
or the operator of the pipeline or vessel
isn't a registrant.
• It isn't made by bulk transfer.
The enterer is liable for the tax.
Importer of record's liability. The importer of record is jointly and severally liable for
the tax with the enterer if the importer of record
isn't the enterer of the taxable fuel and the enterer isn't a taxable fuel registrant.
However, an importer of record meeting both
of the following conditions at the time of the entry won’t be liable for the tax.
1. The importer of record has an unexpired
notification certificate (discussed under
Gasoline) from the enterer.
2. The importer of record has no reason to
believe any information in the certificate is
false.
Customs bond. The customs bond won’t
be charged for the tax imposed on the entry of
the diesel fuel or kerosene if at the time of entry
the surety has an unexpired notification certificate from the enterer and has no reason to believe any information in the certificate is false.
Removal from a terminal by unregistered
position holder or unregistered pipeline or
vessel operator. The removal by bulk transfer
of diesel fuel or kerosene from a terminal is taxable if the position holder for that fuel or the operator of the pipeline or vessel isn't a registrant.
The position holder is liable for the tax. The terminal operator is jointly and severally liable for
the tax if the position holder is a person other
than the terminal operator. See Terminal operator's liability under Removal from terminal, earlier, for an exception.
Bulk transfers not received at approved terminal or refinery. The removal by bulk transfer
of diesel fuel or kerosene from a terminal or refinery or the entry of diesel fuel or kerosene by
bulk transfer into the United States is taxable if
the following conditions apply.
1. No tax was previously imposed (as discussed earlier) on any of the following
events.
a. The removal from the refinery.

8

Chapter 1

Fuel Taxes

b. The entry into the United States.
c. The removal from a terminal by an unregistered position holder.
2. Upon removal from the pipeline or vessel,
the diesel fuel or kerosene isn't received at
an approved terminal or refinery (or at another pipeline or vessel).
The owner of the diesel fuel or kerosene
when it's removed from the pipeline or vessel is
liable for the tax. However, an owner meeting all
the following conditions at the time of the removal won’t be liable for the tax.
• The owner is a registrant.
• The owner has an unexpired notification
certificate (discussed under Gasoline) from
the operator of the terminal or refinery
where the diesel fuel or kerosene is received.
• The owner has no reason to believe any information on the certificate is false.
The operator of the facility where the diesel fuel
or kerosene is received is liable for the tax if the
owner meets these conditions. The operator is
jointly and severally liable if the owner doesn't
meet these conditions.
Sales to unregistered persons. The sale of
diesel fuel or kerosene located within the bulk
transfer/terminal system to a person that isn't a
registrant is taxable if tax wasn't previously imposed under any of the events discussed earlier.
The seller is liable for the tax. However, a
seller meeting all the following conditions at the
time of the sale won’t be liable for the tax.
• The seller is a registrant.
• The seller has an unexpired notification
certificate from the buyer.
• The seller has no reason to believe any information on the certificate is false.
The buyer of the diesel fuel or kerosene is liable
for the tax if the seller meets these conditions.
The buyer is jointly and severally liable if the
seller doesn't meet these conditions.
Exception. The tax doesn't apply to a sale
if all of the following apply.
• The buyer's principal place of business
isn't in the United States.
• The sale occurs as the fuel is delivered into
a transport vessel with a capacity of at
least 20,000 barrels of fuel.
• The seller is a registrant and the exporter
of record.
• The fuel was exported.
Removal or sale of blended diesel fuel or
kerosene. The removal or sale of blended diesel fuel or blended kerosene by the blender is
taxable. Blended taxable fuel produced using
biodiesel is subject to the tax. See Blended taxable fuel, earlier.
The blender is liable for the tax. The tax is
figured on the number of gallons not previously
subject to the tax.
Persons who blend biodiesel with undyed
diesel fuel to produce and sell or use a biodiesel mixture outside the bulk transfer/terminal
system must pay the diesel fuel tax on the volume of biodiesel in the mixture. Generally, the
biodiesel mixture must be diesel fuel. Use Form
720 to report this tax. You must also be
Publication 510 (12-2025)

registered by the IRS as a blender. See Form
637 for more information.
However, if an untaxed liquid is sold as taxable fuel and that untaxed liquid is used to produce blended taxable fuel, the person that sold
the untaxed liquid is jointly and severally liable
for the tax imposed on the blender's sale or removal of the blended taxable fuel.
Additional persons liable. When the person
liable for the tax willfully fails to pay the tax, joint
and several liability for the tax applies to:
• Any officer, employee, or agent of the person who is under a duty to ensure the payment of the tax and who willfully fails to
perform that duty; or
• Anyone who willfully causes the person to
fail to pay the tax.
Credits or refunds. A credit or refund is allowable for the tax on undyed diesel fuel or undyed
kerosene used for a nontaxable use. For more
information, see chapter 2.

Dyed Diesel Fuel and Dyed
Kerosene
Caution: Dyed diesel fuel and dyed kerosene
are subject to $0.001 per gallon LUST tax as
discussed below, unless the fuel is for export.
The excise tax isn't imposed on the removal,
entry, or sale of diesel fuel or kerosene (other
than the LUST tax) if all the following tests are
met.
• The person otherwise liable for tax (for example, the position holder) is a registrant.
• In the case of a removal from a terminal,
the terminal is an approved terminal.
• The diesel fuel or kerosene satisfies the
dyeing requirements.
Dyeing requirements. Diesel fuel or kerosene
satisfies the dyeing requirements only if it satisfies the following requirements.
• It contains the dye Solvent Red 164 (and
no other dye) at a concentration spectrally
equivalent to at least 3.9 pounds of the
solid dye standard Solvent Red 26 per
thousand barrels of fuel or any dye of a
type and in a concentration that has been
approved by the Commissioner.
• Is indelibly dyed by mechanical injection.
See IRS.gov/irb/
2005-46_IRB#NOT-2005-80 section 6 for
transition rules that apply until final regulations are issued by the IRS.
Notice required. A legible and conspicuous
notice stating either: DYED DIESEL FUEL,
NONTAXABLE USE ONLY, PENALTY FOR
TAXABLE USE or DYED KEROSENE, NONTAXABLE USE ONLY, PENALTY FOR TAXABLE USE must be:
1. Provided by the terminal operator to any
person that receives dyed diesel fuel or
dyed kerosene at a terminal rack of that
operator, and
2. Posted by a seller on any retail pump or
other delivery facility where it sells dyed
diesel fuel or dyed kerosene for use by its
buyer.
Publication 510 (12-2025)

The notice under item (1) must be provided
by the time of the removal and must appear on
all shipping papers, bills of lading, and similar
documents accompanying the removal of the
fuel.
Any seller that fails to post the required notice under item (2) is presumed to know that the
fuel will be used for a taxable use (a use other
than a nontaxable use listed later). That seller is
subject to the penalty described next.
Penalty. A penalty is imposed on a person if
any of the following situations apply.
1. Any dyed fuel is sold or held for sale by the
person for a use the person knows or has
reason to know isn't a nontaxable use of
the fuel.
2. Any dyed fuel is held for use or used by
the person for a use other than a nontaxable use and the person knew, or had reason to know, that the fuel was dyed.
3. The person willfully alters or attempts to
alter, chemically or otherwise, the strength
or composition of any dye in dyed fuel.
4. The person who has knowledge that a
dyed fuel which has been altered as described in (3) above, sells or holds for sale
such fuel for any use for which the person
knows or has reason to know isn't a nontaxable use of the fuel.
The penalty is the greater of $1,000 or $10
per gallon of the dyed diesel fuel or dyed kerosene involved. After the first violation, the
$1,000 portion of the penalty increases depending on the number of violations.
This penalty is in addition to any tax imposed on the fuel.
If the penalty is imposed, each officer, employee, or agent of a business entity who willfully participated in any act giving rise to the
penalty is jointly and severally liable with that
entity for the penalty.
There is no administrative appeal or review
allowed for the third and subsequent penalty imposed by section 6715 on any person except
for:
• Fraud or a mistake in the chemical analysis, or
• Mathematical calculation of the penalty.
If you're liable for the penalty, you may also
be liable for the back-up tax, discussed later.
However, the penalty applies only to dyed diesel fuel and dyed kerosene, while the back-up
tax may apply to other fuels. The penalty may
apply if the fuel is held for sale or use for a taxable use while the back-up tax doesn't apply unless the fuel is delivered into a fuel supply tank.
Exception to penalty. The penalty under
item (3) won’t apply in any of the following situations.
• Diesel fuel or kerosene meeting the dyeing
requirements is blended with any undyed
liquid and the resulting product meets the
dyeing requirements.
• Diesel fuel or kerosene meeting the dyeing
requirements is blended with any other liquid (other than diesel fuel or kerosene) that
contains the type and amount of dye required to meet the dyeing requirements.
Chapter 1

Fuel Taxes

• The alteration or attempted alteration oc-

curs in an exempt area of Alaska. See Removal for sale or use in Alaska, later.
• Diesel fuel or kerosene meeting the dyeing
requirements is blended with diesel fuel or
kerosene not meeting the dyeing requirements and the blending occurs as part of a
nontaxable use (other than export), discussed later.

Alaska and Feedstocks
Tax of $0.001 per gallon is imposed on:
• Undyed diesel fuel or undyed kerosene
sold or used in Alaska for certain nontaxable uses. See Later sales, later; and
• Undyed kerosene used for feedstock purposes.
Removal for sale or use in Alaska. No tax is
imposed on the removal, entry, or sale of diesel
fuel or kerosene in Alaska for ultimate sale or
use in certain areas of Alaska for certain nontaxable uses. The removal or entry of any diesel
fuel or kerosene isn't taxed if all the following requirements are satisfied.
1. The person otherwise liable for the tax
(position holder, refiner, or enterer):
a. Is a registrant,
b. Can show satisfactory evidence of the
nontaxable nature of the transaction,
and
c. Has no reason to believe the evidence
is false.
2. In the case of a removal from a terminal,
the terminal is an approved terminal.
3. The owner of the fuel immediately after the
removal or entry holds the fuel for its own
use in a nontaxable use (discussed later)
or is a qualified dealer.
If all three of the requirements above aren’t
met, then tax is imposed at $0.244 per gallon.
Qualified dealer. A qualified dealer is any person that holds a qualified dealer license from
the state of Alaska or has been registered by
the IRS as a qualified retailer. Satisfactory evidence may include copies of qualified dealer licenses or exemption certificates obtained for
state tax purposes.
Later sales. The excise tax applies to diesel fuel or kerosene sold by a qualified dealer
after the removal or entry. The tax is imposed at
the time of the sale and the qualified dealer is liable for the tax. However, the sale isn't taxable
(other than the LUST tax at $0.001 per gallon) if
all the following requirements are met.
• The fuel is sold in Alaska for certain nontaxable uses.
• The buyer buys the fuel for its own use in a
nontaxable use or is a qualified dealer.
• The seller can show satisfactory evidence
of the nontaxable nature of the transaction
and has no reason to believe the evidence
is false.
Feedstock purposes. The $0.001 per gallon
LUST tax is imposed on the removal or entry of
undyed kerosene if all the following conditions
are met.
9

1. The person otherwise liable for tax (position holder, refiner, or enterer) is a registrant.
2. In the case of a removal from a terminal,
the terminal is an approved terminal.
3. Either:
a. The person otherwise liable for tax
uses the kerosene for a feedstock
purpose; or
b. The kerosene is sold for use by the
buyer for a feedstock purpose and, at
the time of the sale, the person otherwise liable for tax has an unexpired
certificate from the buyer and has no
reason to believe any information on
the certificate is false.
If all of the requirements above aren’t met,
then tax is imposed at $0.244 per gallon.
Kerosene is used for a feedstock purpose
when it's used for nonfuel purposes in the manufacture or production of any substance other
than gasoline, diesel fuel, or other fuels. For example, kerosene is used for a feedstock purpose when it's used as an ingredient in the production of paint, but isn't used for a feedstock
purpose when it's used to power machinery at a
factory where paint is produced. A feedstock
user is a person that uses kerosene for a feedstock purpose. A registered feedstock user is a
person that has been registered by the IRS as a
feedstock user. See Registration Requirements,
earlier.
Later sales. The excise tax ($0.244 per
gallon) applies to kerosene sold for use by the
buyer for a feedstock purpose if the buyer in
that sale later sells the kerosene. The tax is imposed at the time of the later sale and that seller
is liable for the tax.
Certificate. The certificate from the buyer
certifies the buyer is a registered feedstock user
and the kerosene will be used by the buyer for a
feedstock purpose. The certificate may be included as part of any business records normally
used for a sale. A model certificate is shown in
the Appendix as Model Certificate G. Your certificate must contain all information necessary
to complete the model.
A certificate expires on the earliest of the following dates.
• The date 1 year after the effective date (not
earlier than the date signed) of the certificate.
• The date the seller is provided a new certificate or notice that the current certificate is
invalid.
• The date the seller is notified the buyer's
registration has been revoked or suspended.
The buyer must provide a new certificate if
any information on a certificate has changed.

Back-up Tax
Tax is imposed on the delivery of any of the following into the fuel supply tank of a diesel-powered highway vehicle.
• Any dyed diesel fuel or dyed kerosene for
other than a nontaxable use.

10

• Any undyed diesel fuel or undyed kerosene

on which a credit or refund (for fuel used
for a nontaxable purpose) has been allowed.
• Any liquid other than gasoline, diesel fuel,
or kerosene.

Generally, this back-up tax is imposed at a
rate of $0.244 per gallon.
Liability for tax. Generally, the operator of the
vehicle into which the fuel is delivered is liable
for the tax. In addition, the seller of the diesel
fuel or kerosene is jointly and severally liable for
the tax if the seller knows or has reason to know
that the fuel will be used for other than a nontaxable use.
Exemptions from the back-up tax. The
back-up tax doesn't apply to a delivery of diesel
fuel or kerosene for uses 1, 2, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14,
and 15 listed under Definitions of Nontaxable
Uses in chapter 2.
In addition, since the back-up tax is imposed
only on the delivery into the fuel supply tank of a
diesel-powered vehicle or train, the tax doesn't
apply to diesel fuel or kerosene used as heating
oil or in stationary engines.

Diesel-Water Fuel
Emulsion
Diesel-water fuel emulsion means diesel fuel at
least 14% of which is water and for which the
emulsion additive is registered by a U.S. manufacturer with the EPA under section 211 of the
Clean Air Act as in effect on March 31, 2003.
A reduced tax rate of $0.198 per gallon is
imposed on a diesel-water fuel emulsion. To be
eligible for the reduced rate, the person who
sells, removes, or uses the diesel-water fuel
emulsion must be registered by the IRS. If the
diesel-water fuel emulsion doesn't meet the requirements above, or if the person who sells, removes, or uses the fuel isn't registered, the diesel-water fuel emulsion is taxed at $0.244 per
gallon.
Credits or refunds. The allowance for a credit
or refund on a diesel-water fuel emulsion is discussed in chapter 2.

Kerosene for Use in
Aviation
Commercial aviation. Commercial aviation
means any use of an aircraft in the business of
transporting persons or property for compensation or hire by air, unless one of the following exemptions apply.
• Any use exclusively for the purpose of skydiving.
• Certain air transportation by seaplane. See
Seaplanes under Transportation of Persons by Air.
• Any use of an aircraft owned or leased by a
member of an affiliated group and unavailable for hire by nonmembers. For more information, see Aircraft used by affiliated
Chapter 1

Fuel Taxes

corporations under Special Rules on
Transportation Taxes.
• Any use of an aircraft that has a maximum
certificated takeoff weight of 6,000 pounds
or less, unless the aircraft is operated on
an established line. For more information,
see Small aircraft under Special Rules on
Transportation Taxes.
• Any use where the surtax on fuel used in a
fractional ownership program aircraft is imposed. See Surtax on fuel used in a fractional ownership program aircraft, later.
Foreign trade. Foreign trade means fuel used
in civil aircraft employed in foreign trade or trade
between the United States and any of its territories. The term “trade” includes the transportation of persons or property for hire and the making of the necessary preparations for such
transportation. In the case of aircraft registered
in a foreign country, the country must allow reciprocal benefits for aircraft registered in the
United States.
Noncommercial
aviation. Noncommercial
aviation means any use of an aircraft not described as commercial aviation.
Nontaxable use. Nontaxable use means a use
that is exempt from federal excise tax, excluding
LUST tax. Aviation fuel used in foreign trade is
exempt from federal excise tax, including LUST
tax. Nontaxable uses include the following.
• For use on a farm for farming purposes.
• For use in certain helicopter and fixed-wing
air ambulance.
• For use other than as a fuel in the propulsion engine of an aircraft.
• For the exclusive use of a qualified blood
collector organization.
• For the exclusive use of a nonprofit educational organization.
• For the exclusive use of a state.
• For use in an aircraft owned by an aircraft
museum.
• For use in military aircraft.
• For use in foreign trade.
Registered commercial aviation operator.
Registered commercial aviation operator means
a commercial aviation operator that is registered with the IRS with Form 637 activity letter
“Y” that buys kerosene for its use in commercial
aviation (other than foreign trade).
Secured airport terminal (SAT). SAT means
a terminal located within a secured area of an
airport. Notice 2016-15, found at IRS.gov/irb/
2016-13_IRB#NOT-2016-15, contains the criteria for a SAT designation. A list of SATs can be
found at Terminal Control Locations Directory. A
SAT designation relates only to fueling operations at airport terminals for purposes of federal
excise taxes on kerosene for use in commercial
aviation. The SAT designation doesn’t relate to,
and isn’t based on, the general security of the
airports or associated fuel terminals, regardless
of whether the facility is included (or not included) in the list.
Qualified refueler trucks, tankers, and tank
wagons treated as terminals (qualifying refueler). For purposes of the tax imposed on
kerosene for use in aviation, which is removed
Publication 510 (12-2025)

directly into the fuel tank of an aircraft for use in
aviation, qualifying refuelers are treated as part
of a terminal if all the following conditions are
met.
1. Such terminal is located within an area of
an airport.
2. Any kerosene for use in aviation that is loaded in a refueler truck, tanker, or tank
wagon at a terminal is for delivery into aircraft at the airport in which the terminal is
located.
3. Except in exigent circumstances, such as
those identified in Notice 2005-80, no vehicle registered for highway use is loaded
with kerosene for use in aviation at the terminal.
4. The qualifying refueler meets the following
requirements:
• Has storage tanks, hose, and coupling equipment designed and used
for fueling aircraft;
• Isn’t registered for highway use; and
• Is operated by the terminal operator
or a person that makes a daily accounting to the terminal operator of
each delivery of fuel from the qualifying refueler.

Taxable Events
Generally, kerosene is taxed at $0.244 per gallon unless a reduced rate applies (see Diesel
Fuel and Kerosene, earlier). A reduced rate applies to kerosene used in aviation if certain conditions are met.
The tax rate for kerosene removed directly
from a terminal, such as through a hydrant system or by a qualifying refueler, into the fuel tank
of an aircraft for use in aviation is $0.219 per
gallon. This rate applies if the requirements for a
further reduced rate aren’t met (see Kerosene
for Use in Aviation, earlier; Kerosene for use in
aviation, nontaxable uses, later; and Kerosene
for use in foreign trade, later). The position
holder is liable for the tax. The airport terminal
doesn't need to be a secured airport terminal for
this rate to apply. The qualifying refueler must
meet the requirements discussed under Qualified refueler trucks, tankers, and tank wagons
treated as terminals (qualifying refueler), earlier.
Fuel used in a fractional ownership program
aircraft is subject to a surtax of $0.141 per gallon. For more information, see Surtax on Any
Liquid Used in a Fractional Ownership Program
Aircraft as Fuel, later.
Kerosene for use in commercial aviation.
The tax rate for kerosene removed directly from
a terminal, such as through a hydrant system or
by a qualifying refueler, into the fuel tank of an
aircraft for use in commercial aviation is $0.044
per gallon. For kerosene removed into an aircraft from a qualifying refueler, this rate only applies if the qualifying refueler is loaded at a SAT.
See Secured airport terminal (SAT), earlier. The
qualifying refuelers must meet the requirements
discussed under Qualified refueler trucks, tankers, and tank wagons treated as terminals
(qualifying refueler), earlier. The registered
commercial aviation operator is liable for the
tax. See Registered commercial aviation operaPublication 510 (12-2025)

tor, earlier. For the lower rate to apply, the operator must be a registered commercial aviation
operator and must provide the position holder
with a certificate similar to Model Certificate K in
the Appendix. See Certificate for Commercial
Aviation or Nontaxable Uses, later.
In addition, for the registered commercial
aviation operator to be liable at the $0.044 tax
rate instead of the position holder, the position
holder must meet the following requirements.
• Is a taxable fuel registrant.
• Has an unexpired certificate (a model certificate is shown in the Appendix as Model
Certificate K) from the operator of the aircraft.
• Has no reason to believe any of the information in the certificate is false.
Note. The $0.044 rate is only applicable to
the registered commercial aviation operator. If
the conditions above aren’t met, the position
holder is liable for tax at the $0.244 or $0.219
rate and a claim may be filed by either the ultimate purchaser or the registered ultimate vendor.
Kerosene for use in aviation, nontaxable
uses. The tax rate for kerosene removed directly from a terminal, such as through a hydrant system or by a qualifying refueler, into the
fuel tank of an aircraft for nontaxable use (other
than foreign trade) is $0.001 per gallon. The position holder is liable for the tax. For this rate to
apply, the operator must provide the position
holder with a certificate similar to Model Certificate K in the Appendix. See Certificate for
Commercial Aviation or Nontaxable Uses, later.
The airport terminal doesn't need to be a SAT
for this rate to apply to hydrant removals. However, in the case of a qualifying refueler, the airport terminal must be a SAT and the qualifying
refueler must meet the requirements discussed
under Qualified refueler trucks, tankers, and
tank wagons treated as terminals (qualifying refueler), earlier.
Kerosene for use in foreign trade. There is
no tax for kerosene removed directly from a terminal, such as through a hydrant system or by a
qualifying refueler, into the fuel tank of an aircraft for use in foreign trade. The airport terminal doesn't need to be a SAT for this rate to apply to hydrant removals. However, in the case of
a qualifying refueler, the airport terminal must
be a SAT and the qualifying refueler must meet
the requirements discussed under Qualified refueler trucks, tankers, and tank wagons treated
as terminals (qualifying refueler), earlier. For
this rate to apply, the operator must provide the
position holder with a certificate similar to
Model Certificate K in the Appendix. See Certificate for Commercial Aviation or Nontaxable
Uses, later.

Liability For Tax
If the kerosene is removed directly into the fuel
tank of an aircraft for use in commercial aviation, then the registered commercial aviation
operator of the aircraft in commercial aviation is
liable for the tax on the removal at the rate of
$0.044 per gallon. If the kerosene is removed
directly into the fuel tank of an aircraft for a use
that is exempt from tax under section 4041(c)
Chapter 1

Fuel Taxes

(except foreign trade), then the position holder
is liable for the $0.001 LUST tax for kerosene
for use in aviation. For example, for kerosene
removed directly into the aircraft for use in military aircraft, the position holder is liable for the
tax.
For the registered commercial aviation operator to be liable for the $0.044 tax rate, the position holder must meet the following requirements.
• Is a taxable fuel registrant.
• Has an unexpired certificate (a model certificate is shown in the Appendix as Model
Certificate K) from the operator of the aircraft.
• Has no reason to believe any of the information in the certificate is false.

Surtax on Any Liquid
Used in a Fractional
Ownership Program
Aircraft as Fuel
Fuel used in a fractional ownership program aircraft is subject to a surtax of $0.141 per gallon.
The fractional ownership program manager is liable for the tax. The surtax applies in addition to
any other taxes imposed on the removal, entry,
use, or sale of the fuel. If the surtax is imposed,
the following air transportation taxes don't apply.
• Transportation of persons by air.
• Transportation of property by air.
• Use of international air travel facilities.
These taxes are described under Air Transportation Taxes, later.
A fractional ownership program aircraft flight
is considered noncommercial aviation; for the
rules for kerosene used in noncommercial aviation, see Kerosene for Use in Aviation, earlier.
A fractional ownership program is one under
which:
• A single fractional ownership program
manager provides fractional ownership
program management services on behalf
of the fractional owners;
• There are one or more fractional owners
per fractional program aircraft, with at least
one fractional program aircraft having more
than one owner;
• For at least two fractional program aircraft,
none of the ownership interests in the aircraft are less than the minimum fractional
ownership interest or held by the program
manager;
• There exists a dry-lease aircraft exchange
arrangement among all of the fractional
owners; and
• There are multi-year program agreements
covering the fractional ownership, fractional ownership program management
services, and dry-lease aircraft exchange
aspects of the program.
Fractional program aircraft. Any aircraft that,
in any fractional ownership aircraft program, is
listed as a fractional program aircraft in the
management specifications issued to the manager of such program by the Federal Aviation
Administration under subpart K of part 91, title
11

14, Code of Federal Regulations, and is registered in the United States.
Fractional program aircraft aren’t considered
used for transportation of a qualified fractional
owner or on account of such qualified fractional
owner, when they're used for flight demonstration, maintenance, or crew training. In such situations, the flight isn't commercial aviation. Instead, the tax on the fuel used in the flight is
imposed at the non-commercial aviation rate.
Fractional owner. Any person owning any interest (including the entire interest) in a fractional program aircraft.
Dry-lease aircraft exchange. An agreement,
documented by the written program agreements, under which the fractional program aircraft are available, on an as-needed basis without crew, to each fractional owner.
Special rule relating to deadhead service.
A fractional program aircraft won’t be considered to be used on account of a qualified fractional owner when it's used in deadhead service
and a person other than a qualified fractional
owner is separately charged for such service.
More information. See section 4043 for more
information on the surtax.

Certificate for
Commercial Aviation or
Nontaxable Uses
A certificate is required from the aircraft operator for the following:
• To support aircraft operator liability for tax
on removal of kerosene for use in aviation
directly into the fuel tank of an aircraft in
commercial aviation, or
• For exempt uses.
Certificate. The certificate may be included as
part of any business records normally used for a
sale. See Model Certificate K in the Appendix.
A certificate expires on the earliest of the following dates.
• The date 1 year after the effective date (not
earlier than the date signed) of the certificate.
• The date the buyer provides the seller a
new certificate or notice that the current
certificate is invalid.
• The date the IRS or the buyer notifies the
seller that the buyer's right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn.
The buyer must provide a new certificate if
any information on a certificate has changed.
The IRS may withdraw the buyer's right to
provide a certificate if the buyer uses the kerosene for use in aviation to which a certificate relates other than as stated in the certificate.
Nontaxable use. The rate on kerosene for
use in aviation is $0.001 (LUST tax) if it's removed from any refinery or terminal directly into
the fuel tank of an aircraft for a nontaxable use.
A nontaxable use includes kerosene for the exclusive use of a state or local government.
There is no tax on kerosene removed directly
12

into the fuel tank of an aircraft for use in foreign
trade.
Flash title transaction. In a "flash title transaction," the position holder sells the kerosene to
a wholesale distributor (reseller) that in turn
sells the kerosene to the aircraft operator as the
kerosene is being removed from a terminal into
the fuel tank of an aircraft. A position holder isn't
liable for tax if, among other conditions, it obtains a certificate from the operator of the aircraft into which the kerosene is delivered. In this
case, the position holder will be treated as having a certificate from the operator of the aircraft
if:
• The aircraft operator puts the reseller's
name, address, and EIN on the certificate
in place of the position holder's information; and
• The reseller provides the position holder
with a statement of the kerosene reseller.
Reseller statement. This is a statement
that is signed under penalties of perjury by a
person with authority to bind the reseller; is provided at the bottom or on the back of the certificate (or in an attached document); and contains:
• The reseller's name, address, and EIN;
• The position holder's name, address, and
EIN; and
• A statement that the reseller has no reason
to believe that any information in the accompanying aircraft operator's certificate is
false.
Credits or payments. If the aircraft operator
doesn’t provide a certificate to the position
holder, then the ultimate purchaser (the operator) may make a claim for the kerosene it uses
in commercial aviation (other than foreign trade)
and for nontaxable use (other than for exclusive
use by a state or local government). A registered ultimate vendor may make a claim for certain sales if the ultimate purchaser waives their
right to make a claim. For more information, see
Kerosene for Use in Aviation, later.

Partially exempt methanol and ethanol
fuels. A reduced tax rate applies to these
fuels. Partially exempt ethanol and methanol
means any liquid at least 85% of which consists
of alcohol produced from natural gas. The tax
rates are listed in the Instructions for Form 720.
Motor vehicles. Motor vehicles include all
types of vehicles, whether or not registered (or
required to be registered) for highway use, that
have both the following characteristics.
• They're propelled by a motor.
• They’re designed for carrying or towing
loads from one place to another, regardless of the type of material or load carried
or towed.
Motor vehicles don’t include any vehicle that
moves exclusively on rails, or any of the following items: farm tractors, trench diggers, power
shovels, bulldozers, road graders, road rollers,
and similar equipment that doesn't carry or tow
a load.

Taxable Events
Tax is imposed on the delivery of other fuels into
the fuel supply tank of the propulsion engine of
a motor vehicle or motorboat. However, there is
no tax on the delivery if tax was imposed under
the bulk sales rule, discussed next, or the delivery is for a nontaxable use. If the delivery is in
connection with a sale, the seller is liable for the
tax. If it isn't in connection with a sale, the operator of the vehicle or boat is liable for the tax.
Bulk sales. Tax is imposed on the sale of other
fuels that isn't in connection with delivery into
the fuel supply tank of the propulsion engine of
a motor vehicle or motorboat if the buyer furnishes a written statement to the seller stating
the entire quantity of the fuel covered by the
sale is for other than a nontaxable use listed in
chapter 2. The seller is liable for this tax.
Tax rate. See Form 720 and the Instructions for
Form 720 for the tax rates.

Other Fuels (Including
Alternative Fuels)

Nontaxable uses. See the nontaxable uses of
Other Fuels (Including Alternative Fuels) in
chapter 2.

Other fuels means any liquid except gas oil, fuel
oil, or any product taxable under section 4081.
Other fuels include alternative fuels. Alternative
fuels are:
• Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG),
• “P Series” fuels,
• Compressed natural gas (CNG),
• Liquefied hydrogen,
• Any liquid fuel derived from coal (including
peat) through the Fischer-Tropsch process,
• Liquid fuel derived from biomass,
• Liquefied natural gas (LNG), and
• Liquefied gas derived from biomass.

Compressed Natural
Gas (CNG)

Liquefied petroleum gas includes propane, pentane, or mixtures of those products.
Qualified methanol and ethanol fuels.
Qualified ethanol and methanol means any liquid at least 85% of which consists of alcohol
produced from coal, including peat. The tax
rates are listed in the Instructions for Form 720.
Chapter 1

Fuel Taxes

Taxable Events
Tax is imposed on the delivery of compressed
natural gas (CNG) into the fuel supply tank of
the propulsion engine of a motor vehicle or motorboat. The tax is based on the gasoline gallon
equivalent of CNG. See Form 720 for the tax
rate.
However, there is no tax on the delivery if tax
was imposed under the bulk sales rule, or the
delivery is for a nontaxable use, listed in chapter 2. If the delivery is in connection with a sale,
the seller is liable for the tax. If it isn't in connection with a sale, the operator of the boat or vehicle is liable for the tax.
Publication 510 (12-2025)

If CNG is delivered into the fuel supply tank
by the seller in connection with the sale of CNG
for a nontaxable use, the seller is liable for the
tax unless, at the time of the sale, the seller has
an exemption certificate from the buyer. The
seller must have no reason to believe any information in the certificate is false.
Certificate. The certificate from the buyer certifies the CNG will be used in a nontaxable use.
The certificate may be included as part of any
business records normally used for a sale. A
model certificate is shown in the Appendix as
Model Certificate J.
A certificate expires on the earliest of the following dates.
• The date 1 year after the effective date
(which may be no earlier than the date
signed) of the certificate.
• The date a new certificate is provided to
the seller.
• The date the seller is notified the buyer's
right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn.
Bulk sales. Tax is imposed on the sale of CNG
that isn't in connection with delivery into the fuel
supply tank of the propulsion engine of a motor
vehicle or motorboat if the buyer furnishes a
written statement to the seller that the entire
quantity of the CNG covered by the sale is for
use as a fuel in a motor vehicle or motorboat
and the seller has given the buyer a written acknowledgment of receipt of the statement. The
seller of the CNG is liable for the tax.
Motor vehicle. For this purpose, motor vehicle
has the same meaning as given under Other
Fuels (Including Alternative Fuels), later.
Nontaxable uses. The nontaxable uses of
CNG are discussed under Other Fuels (Including Alternative Fuels) in chapter 2.

Fuels Used on Inland
Waterways
Caution: The tax on inland waterways fuel use
applies at the rate listed on Form 720. This is in
addition to all other taxes imposed on the sale
or use of the fuel.
Tax applies to liquid fuel used in the propulsion system of commercial transportation vessels while traveling on certain inland and intracoastal waterways in the United States. The tax
generally applies to such use of a liquid fuel in
all types of vessels, including ships, barges,
and tugboats. The LUST tax must be paid on
any liquid fuel used on inland waterways that
isn't subject to LUST tax under section 4041(d)
or 4081(a)(2)(B). For example, Bunker C residual fuel oil is subject to the LUST tax.
Inland and intracoastal waterways. Inland
and intracoastal waterways on which fuel consumption is subject to tax are specified in section 206 of the Inland Waterways Revenue Act
of 1978, as amended. See Regulations section
48.4042-1(g) for a list of these waterways.

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Commercial waterway transportation. Commercial waterway transportation is the use of a
vessel on inland or intracoastal waterways for
either of the following purposes.
• The use is in the business of transporting
property for compensation or hire.
• The use is in transporting property in the
business of the owner, lessee, or operator
of the vessel (other than fish or aquatic animal life caught on the voyage), whether or
not a fee is charged.

The person who operates (or whose employees operate) the vessel in which the fuel is
consumed is liable for the tax. If a vessel owner
(or lessee) contracts with an independent contractor to operate the vessel, the independent
contractor is the person liable for tax, regardless of who purchases the fuel. The tax is paid
with Form 720. No tax deposits are required.

The operation of all vessels meeting either
of these requirements is commercial waterway
transportation regardless of whether the vessel
is actually transporting property on a particular
voyage. However, see Exemptions in chapter 7,
later. The tax is imposed on fuel consumed in
vessels while engaged in any of the following
activities.
• Moving without cargo.
• Awaiting passage through locks.
• Moving to or from a repair facility.
• Dislodging vessels grounded on a sand
bar.
• Fleeting barges into a single tow.
• Maneuvering around loading and unloading docks.

Fishing vessels. Fuel isn't taxable when
used by a fishing vessel while traveling to a fishing site, while engaged in fishing, or while returning from the fishing site with its catch. A
vessel isn't transporting property in the business of the owner, lessee, or operator by merely
transporting fish or other aquatic animal life
caught on the voyage.
However, the tax does apply to fuel used by
a commercial vessel along the specified waterways while traveling to pick up aquatic animal
life caught by another vessel and while transporting the catch of that other vessel.

Liquid fuel. Liquid fuel includes diesel fuel,
Bunker C residual fuel oil, gasoline, and other
fuels. The tax is imposed on liquid fuel actually
consumed by a vessel's propulsion engine and
not on the unconsumed fuel in a vessel's tank.
Dual use of liquid fuels. The tax applies to all
taxable liquid used as a fuel in the propulsion
system of the vessel, regardless of whether the
engine (or other propulsion system) is used for
another purpose. The tax applies to all liquid
fuel consumed by the propulsion engine even if
it operates special equipment by means of a
power take-off or power transfer. For example,
the fuel used in the engine, both to operate an
alternator, a generator, or to pump and to propel
the vessel is taxable.
The tax doesn't apply to fuel consumed in
engines not used to propel the vessel.
If you draw liquid fuel from the same tank to
operate both a propulsion engine and a nonpropulsion engine, determine the fuel used in the
nonpropulsion engine and exclude that fuel
from the tax. The IRS will accept a reasonable
estimate of the fuel based on your operating experience, but you must keep records to support
your allocation.
Voyages crossing boundaries of the specified waterways. The tax applies to fuel consumed by a vessel crossing the boundaries of
the specified waterways only to the extent of
fuel consumed for propulsion while on those
waterways. Generally, the operator may figure
the fuel so used during a particular voyage by
multiplying total fuel consumed in the propulsion engine by a fraction. The numerator of the
fraction is the time spent operating on the specified waterways and the denominator is the total
time spent on the voyage. This calculation can't
be used where it's found to be unreasonable.
Taxable event. Tax is imposed on liquid fuel
used in the propulsion system of a vessel.

Chapter 1

Fuel Taxes

Exemptions. Certain types of commercial waterway transportation are excluded from the tax.

Deep-draft ocean-going vessels. Fuel
isn't taxable when used by a vessel designed
primarily for use on the high seas and that has a
draft of more than 12 feet on the voyage. For
each voyage, figure the draft when the vessel
has its greatest load of cargo and fuel. A voyage
is a round trip. If a vessel has a draft of more
than 12 feet on at least one way of the voyage,
the vessel satisfies the 12-foot draft requirement for the entire voyage.
Passenger vessels. Fuel isn't taxable
when used by vessels primarily for the transportation of persons. The tax doesn't apply to fuel
used in commercial passenger vessels while
being operated as passenger vessels, even if
such vessels also transport property. Nor does
it apply to ferryboats carrying passengers and
their cars.
Ocean-going barges. Fuel isn't taxable
when used in tugs to move LASH (Lighter
Aboard Ship) and SEABEE ocean-going barges
released by their ocean-going carriers solely to
pick up or deliver international cargoes.
However, it's taxable when any of the following conditions apply.
• One or more of the barges in the tow isn't a
LASH barge, SEABEE barge, or other
ocean-going barge carried aboard an
ocean-going vessel.
• One or more of the barges isn't on an international voyage.
• Part of the cargo carried isn't being transported internationally.
State or local governments. No tax is imposed on the fuel used in a vessel operated by
a state or local government in transporting property on official business. The ultimate use of the
cargo must be for a function ordinarily carried
out by governmental units. An Indian tribal government is treated as a state only if the fuel is
used in the exercise of an essential tribal government function.
Records: All operators of vessels used in commercial waterway transportation who acquire
liquid fuel must keep adequate records of all
fuel used for taxable purposes. Operators who
13

are seeking an exclusion from the tax must
keep records that will support any exclusion
claimed.
Your records should include all of the following information.
• The acquisition date and quantity of fuel
delivered into storage tanks or the tanks on
your vessel.
• The identification number or name of each
vessel using the fuel.
• The departure time, departure point, route
traveled, destination, and arrival time for
each vessel.
If you claim an exemption from the tax, include in your records the following additional information as it pertains to you.
• The draft of the vessel on each voyage.
• The type of vessel in which you used the
fuel.
• The ultimate use of the cargo (for vessels
operated by state or local governments).

Second Generation
Biofuel Not Used as Fuel
If you claimed the section 40 second generation
biofuel producer credit, you're liable for an excise tax on each gallon of second generation biofuel if you don't use the fuel for the purposes
described under Qualified Second Generation
Biofuel Production next.
Qualified second generation biofuel production. This is second generation biofuel that
during the tax year:
1. Is sold by the producer to another person:
a. For use by the buyer in the buyer’s
trade or business to produce a qualified second generation biofuel mixture
(other than casual off-farm production),
b. For use by the buyer as a fuel in a
trade or business, or
c. Who sells the second generation biofuel at retail to another person and
puts the second generation biofuel in
the retail buyer’s fuel tank; or
2. Is used or sold by the producer for any
purpose described in (1) above.
Qualified second generation biofuel production
doesn't include purchasing alcohol and increasing the proof of the alcohol through additional
distillation. Nor does it include second generation biofuel that isn't both produced and used as
a fuel in the United States or a U.S. territory. A
qualified second generation biofuel mixture
combines second generation biofuel with gasoline or a special fuel. The producer of the mixture either:
• Used it as a fuel, or
• Sold it as fuel to another person.
Report the tax on Form 720. The rate of tax
depends on the applicable rate used to figure
the credit. No deposits are required.

14

Biodiesel Sold as But
Not Used as Fuel

Gasoline and Aviation
Gasoline

You must pay a tax (recapture) on each gallon
of biodiesel or renewable diesel on which a
credit was claimed at the rate used to figure the
credit if you:
• Use it (including a mixture) other than as a
fuel;
• Buy it at retail and use it to create a mixture;
• Separate it from a mixture; or
• Use agri-biodiesel on which the small
agri-biodiesel producer credit was claimed
for a use not described under Qualified
Agri-Biodiesel Production in the Instructions for Form 8864.

Ultimate purchasers. The following are the
uses of gasoline for which a credit or refund
may be allowable to an ultimate purchaser.
• On a farm for farming purposes (credit
only).
• Off-highway business use.
• Export.
• In a boat engaged in commercial fishing.
• In certain intercity and local buses.
• In a school bus.
• Exclusive use by a qualified blood collector
organization.
• In a highway vehicle owned by the United
States that isn't used on a highway.
• Exclusive use by a nonprofit educational
organization.
• Exclusive use by a state, political subdivision of a state, or the District of Columbia
(see Sales by Registered Ultimate Vendors
(Other Than State or Local Government
Purchases), later).
• In an aircraft or vehicle owned by an aircraft museum.

For fuel sold or used after June 30, 2025,
the qualified agri-biodiesel fuel must be exclusively derived from feedstock that was produced or grown in the United States, Mexico, or
Canada. See Form 8864 for rates.
Note: Report the tax on Form 720. The rate
of tax depends on the applicable rate used to
figure the credit. No deposits are required.

2.
Fuel Tax Credits
and Refunds
Federal excise taxes are imposed on certain
fuels as discussed in chapter 1. This chapter
lists the nontaxable uses of each fuel and defines the nontaxable uses. Information on the
refund of the second tax is included.
Information on how to make a claim for credit or
refund is included in this chapter and in the instructions for:
• Form 720,
• Form 4136,
• Form 8849, and
• Form 8864.
Exported taxable fuel. The claim rates for exported taxable fuel are listed on Form 720,
Schedule C; Schedule 1 (Form 8849); and
Form 4136. Taxpayers making a claim for exported taxable fuel must include with their records proof of exportation. Proof of exportation
includes:
• A copy of the export bill of lading issued by
the delivering carrier,
• A certificate by the agent or representative
of the export carrier showing actual exportation of the fuel,
• A certificate of lading signed by a customs
officer of the foreign country to which the
fuel is exported, or
• A statement of the foreign consignee
showing receipt of the fuel.
Chapter 2

Fuel Tax Credits and Refunds

The following are the uses of aviation gasoline for which a credit or refund may be allowable to an ultimate purchaser.
• On a farm for farming purposes (credit
only).
• Export.
• In foreign trade.
• Certain helicopter and fixed-wing air ambulance uses.
• In commercial aviation (other than foreign
trade).
• Exclusive use by a qualified blood collector
organization.
• Exclusive use by a nonprofit education organization.
• Exclusive use by a state, political subdivision of a state, or the District of Columbia
(see Sales by Registered Ultimate Vendors
(Other Than State or Local Government
Purchases), later).
• In an aircraft owned by an aircraft museum.
• In military aircraft.
Claims by persons who paid the tax to the
government. Except for sales to nonprofit educational organizations and states and local governments, a credit or refund is allowable to the
person that paid the tax to the government if the
gasoline was sold to the ultimate purchaser (including an exporter) by either that person or by
a retailer and the fuel was exported; used or
sold for use as a supply for vessels or aircraft,
including military aircraft, commercial fishing,
and foreign trade; sold to a qualified blood collector organization; or used or sold for use in
the production of other fuels. See Filing Claims,
later.
Sales by registered ultimate vendors. This
is an ultimate vendor that sells gasoline or aviation gasoline to any of the following and that is
purchased without the use of a credit card.
• A state or local government for its exclusive
use (including essential government use
by an Indian tribal government).
Publication 510 (12-2025)

• A nonprofit educational organization for its
exclusive use.

The registered ultimate vendor may make
the claim if the ultimate purchaser didn’t use a
credit card and waives its right to the credit or
refund by providing the registered ultimate vendor with a certificate. A sample certificate is included as Model Certificate M in the Appendix.
The registered ultimate vendor must have the
certificate at the time the credit or refund is
claimed.
The ultimate vendor must be registered by
the IRS. See Registration Requirements, earlier.
Credit card purchases. If gasoline and aviation gasoline are purchased with a credit card
issued to a state or local government for its exclusive use (including essential government use
by an Indian tribal government), or a nonprofit
educational organization for its exclusive use,
the person who extended credit to the ultimate
purchaser (the credit card issuer) is treated as
the person that paid the tax and makes the
claim if the credit card issuer:
• Is registered by the IRS;
• Has established that the amount of tax
hasn’t been collected from the person who
purchased the gasoline or has obtained
written consent from the ultimate purchaser to the allowance of the credit or refund; and
• Has repaid or agreed to repay the amount
of the tax to the ultimate vendor, has obtained the written consent of the ultimate
vendor to the allowance of the credit or refund, or has made arrangements that provide the ultimate vendor with reimbursement of the tax.
If the requirements above aren’t met by the
credit card issuer, the credit card issuer must
collect the tax from the ultimate purchaser and
only the ultimate purchaser may make the
claim.
How to make the claim. If the claim is made
by the credit card issuer, see Form 720, Schedule C; or Schedule 8 (Form 8849).

Undyed Diesel Fuel and
Undyed Kerosene (Other
Than Kerosene Used in
Aviation)
For conditions to an allowance of a credit or refund on exported dyed diesel fuel and dyed kerosene, see Exported taxable fuel, earlier.
Ultimate purchasers. The following are nontaxable uses of diesel fuel and kerosene (defined earlier) for which a credit or refund may be
allowable to an ultimate purchaser.
• On a farm for farming purposes.
• Off-highway business use.
• Export.
• In a qualified local bus.
• In a school bus.
• Other than as a fuel in a propulsion engine
of a diesel-powered highway vehicle (such
as home heating oil).
Publication 510 (12-2025)

• Exclusive use by a qualified blood collector
•
•
•

•
•

organization.
In a highway vehicle owned by the United
States that isn't used on a highway.
Exclusive use by a nonprofit educational
organization.
Exclusive use by a state, political subdivision of a state, or the District of Columbia
(see Sales by Registered Ultimate Vendors
(Other Than State or Local Government
Purchases), later).
In a vehicle owned by an aircraft museum.
As a fuel in a propulsion engine of a diesel-powered train.

Sales by Registered Ultimate
Vendors
The following are the sales for which a credit or
refund may be allowable to the registered ultimate vendor only.
• Undyed diesel fuel or undyed kerosene
sold for the exclusive use by a state or local government (if credit card rules don't
apply).
• Undyed kerosene sold from a blocked
pump.
• Undyed diesel fuel or undyed kerosene
used in certain intercity and local buses,
only if the ultimate purchaser waives its
right to the credit or refund by providing the
registered ultimate vendor with a waiver.
Registered ultimate vendor (state use).
This is a person that sells undyed diesel fuel or
undyed kerosene to a state or local government
for its exclusive use (including essential government use by an Indian tribal government). The
diesel fuel or kerosene must be purchased by
the state without the use of a credit card, issued
to the state by the credit card issuer, in order for
the ultimate vendor to make the claim. The ultimate vendor must be registered by the IRS. See
Registration Requirements, earlier.
Registered ultimate vendor (blocked
pump). This is an ultimate vendor that sells
undyed kerosene from a blocked pump.
A credit or refund may be allowable to a registered ultimate vendor (blocked pump) if the
vendor sold to a buyer undyed kerosene from a
blocked pump for use other than as a fuel in a
diesel-powered highway vehicle and the vendor
had no reason to believe the kerosene wouldn’t
be used in that manner.
Blocked pump. A blocked pump is a fuel
pump that meets all the following requirements.
1. It's used to make retail sales of undyed
kerosene for use by the buyer in any nontaxable use.
2. It's at a fixed location.
3. It's identified with a legible and conspicuous notice stating, UNDYED UNTAXED
KEROSENE, NONTAXABLE USE ONLY.
4. It meets either of the following conditions.
a. It can't reasonably be used to dispense fuel directly into the fuel supply
tank of a diesel-powered highway vehicle or train.

Chapter 2

Fuel Tax Credits and Refunds

b. It's locked by the vendor after each
sale and unlocked by the vendor only
in response to a buyer's request for
undyed kerosene for use other than
as a fuel in a diesel-powered highway
vehicle or train.
Registered ultimate vendor (certain intercity and local buses). This is an ultimate vendor that sells undyed diesel fuel or undyed kerosene to the ultimate purchaser for use in certain
intercity and local buses.
The registered ultimate vendor may make
the claim if the ultimate purchaser waives its
right to the credit or refund by providing the registered ultimate vendor with a waiver. A sample
waiver is included as Model Waiver N in the Appendix. The registered ultimate vendor must
have the waiver at the time the credit or payment is claimed.
Credit card purchases. If undyed diesel fuel
or kerosene is purchased with a credit card issued to a state, the person who extended credit
to the state (the credit card issuer) is treated as
the person that paid the tax and makes the
claim if the credit card issuer:
• Is registered by the IRS;
• Has established that the amount of tax
hasn’t been collected from the person who
purchased the diesel fuel or kerosene, or
has obtained written consent from the ultimate purchaser to the allowance of the
credit or refund; and
• Has repaid or agreed to repay the amount
of the tax to the ultimate vendor, has obtained the written consent of the ultimate
vendor to the allowance of the credit or refund, or has made arrangements that provide the ultimate vendor with reimbursement of the tax.
If the requirements above aren’t met by the
credit card issuer, the credit card issuer must
collect the tax from the ultimate purchaser and
only the ultimate purchaser may make the
claim.

Diesel-Water Fuel
Emulsion
A claim for credit or refund may be made for the
nontaxable use of a diesel-water fuel emulsion
and for undyed diesel fuel used to produce a
diesel-water fuel emulsion. The claim rate for
nontaxable use of a diesel-water fuel emulsion
taxed at $0.198 per gallon is $0.197 (if exported, the claim rate is $0.198). The following are
the nontaxable uses for a diesel-water fuel
emulsion for which a credit or refund may be allowable to an ultimate purchaser.
• On a farm for farming purposes.
• Off-highway business use.
• Export.
• In a qualified local bus.
• In a school bus.
• Other than as fuel in the propulsion engine
of a train or diesel-powered highway vehicle (but not off-highway use).
• Exclusive use by a qualified blood collector
organization.
• In a highway vehicle owned by the United
States that isn't used on a highway.
15

• Exclusive use by a nonprofit educational

organization.
• Exclusive use by a state, political subdivision of a state, or the District of Columbia.
• In an aircraft or vehicle owned by an aircraft museum.
Blender claims. The claim rate for undyed diesel fuel taxed at $0.244 and used to produce a
diesel-water fuel emulsion is $0.046 per gallon
of diesel fuel so used. The blender must be registered by the IRS in order to make the claim.
The blender must attach a statement to the
claim certifying that:
• The diesel-water fuel emulsion contains at
least 14% water,
• The emulsion additive is registered by a
U.S. manufacturer with the EPA under section 211 of the Clean Air Act as in effect on
March 31, 2003,
• Undyed diesel fuel taxed at $0.244 was
used to produce the diesel-water fuel
emulsion, and
• The diesel-water fuel emulsion was used
or sold for use in the blender's trade or
business.

Kerosene for Use in
Aviation
A credit or payment of the tax on kerosene used
in aviation may be allowed if the rate of tax on
the use is less than the rate of tax that was
charged on the kerosene. The credit or payment
is allowable to the ultimate purchaser, registered ultimate vendor, or registered credit card
issuer, depending on how the kerosene was acquired and if certain conditions are satisfied.
Ultimate purchasers. Ultimate purchaser
means a person who purchases kerosene for
use in aviation. Generally, the ultimate purchaser is the aircraft operator.
Registered ultimate vendor. Registered ultimate vendor means a person who sells kerosene for use in aviation to the ultimate purchaser and is registered as an ultimate vendor
with an IRS Form 637 activity letter "UA," or
"UV" for sales to a state or local government for
its exclusive use.
Registered credit card issuer. Registered
credit card issuer means a person that issues
credit cards for sales of taxable fuel to a state or
local government for its exclusive use and is
registered as a credit card issuer with the IRS
Form 637 activity letter "CC."
Kerosene for use in commercial aviation
(other than foreign trade). An ultimate purchaser that purchases kerosene for use in commercial aviation on which tax was imposed at a
rate higher than the commercial aviation rate of
$0.044 per gallon may make a claim for the difference between the rate that was imposed (either $0.244 per gallon or $0.219 per gallon) and
$0.044 per gallon.
The ultimate purchaser may file a claim for
kerosene used in commercial aviation in which
tax was originally imposed at a higher rate if the
ultimate purchaser didn't provide a waiver to the
16

ultimate vendor with respect to the claim. An ultimate purchaser doesn't need to be registered
to support an ultimate purchaser claim for commercial aviation use. See Sales by Registered
Ultimate Vendors (Other Than State or Local
Government Purchases) next, for information
about registered ultimate vendor claims.
Kerosene for use in aviation, nontaxable
use (other than use by state or local government). An ultimate purchaser, other than a
state or local government, that purchases kerosene used in aviation for a nontaxable use, on
which tax was imposed at a rate higher than the
nontaxable use rate of $0.001 per gallon (or $0
in the case of foreign trade), may make a claim
for the difference between the rate that was imposed (either $0.244 per gallon or $0.219 per
gallon) and $0.001 per gallon (or $0 in the case
of foreign trade). The ultimate purchaser may
file a claim for nontaxable use of kerosene used
in aviation if the ultimate purchaser didn't provide a waiver to the ultimate vendor with respect
to the claim.
The following are the nontaxable uses of
kerosene used in aviation for which an ultimate
purchaser may make a claim.
• On a farm for farming purposes.
• In foreign trade.
• Certain helicopter and fixed-wing aircraft
uses.
• For use other than as a fuel in the propulsion engine of an aircraft.
• Exclusive use by a qualified blood collector
organization.
• Exclusive use by a nonprofit educational
organization.
• In an aircraft owned by an aircraft museum.
• In military aircraft.
See Sales by Registered Ultimate Vendors
(Other Than State or Local Government Purchases), later, for information about registered
ultimate vendor claims.
Kerosene for use in aviation by a state or
local government. A state or local government may generally not file an ultimate purchaser claim for nontaxable use of kerosene
used in aviation. Generally, only a registered
credit card issuer or a registered ultimate vendor may file a claim for kerosene sold for use in
aviation to a state or local government for its exclusive use (including essential government use
by an Indian tribal government).
State or local government credit card purchases. If taxed kerosene for use in aviation is
purchased with a credit card issued to a state or
local government, then the person who extended credit to the state or local government (the
credit card issuer) is treated as the person that
paid the tax and may make the claim. In order
for the credit card issuer to make the claim, the
credit card issuer must be registered by the IRS
with Form 637 activity letter "CC" and have the
required certificate from the ultimate purchaser.
A sample certificate is included as Model Certificate R in the Appendix. The credit card issuer
must have the certificate at the time the claim is
filed.
If the requirements above aren't met by the
credit card issuer, then the credit card issuer
must collect the tax from the ultimate purchaser
Chapter 2

Fuel Tax Credits and Refunds

(state or local government) and only the ultimate purchaser may make the claim.
State or local government purchases not
made with a credit card. If a state or local
government purchases kerosene for use in aviation without the use of a credit card, the ultimate
vendor is the only person that may make a
claim. In order for the ultimate vendor to make
the claim, the ultimate vendor must be registered by the IRS with Form 637 activity letter
"UV" and have the required certificate from the
ultimate purchaser. A sample certificate is included as Model Certificate P in the Appendix. The
registered ultimate vendor must have the certificate at the time the claim is filed.

Sales by Registered Ultimate
Vendors (Other Than State or
Local Government
Purchases)
Kerosene for use in commercial aviation or
noncommercial aviation. The registered ultimate vendor of kerosene for use in commercial
aviation (other than foreign trade) or noncommercial aviation (other than nonexempt, noncommercial aviation and exclusive use by a
state, political subdivision of a state, or the District of Columbia) may make this claim if the ultimate purchaser waives its right to the credit or
payment by providing the registered ultimate
vendor with a waiver. A sample waiver is included as Model Waiver L in the Appendix. The
registered ultimate vendor must have the waiver
at the time the credit or payment is claimed.
Noncommercial aviation means any use of
an aircraft not described as commercial aviation. For the definition of commercial aviation,
see Commercial aviation, earlier.
Kerosene for use in nonexempt, noncommercial aviation. Only the registered ultimate
vendor may claim a credit or payment for sales
of kerosene for use in nonexempt, noncommercial aviation. The ultimate vendor must be registered by the IRS (activity letter “UA”) and have
the required certificate from the ultimate purchaser. A sample certificate is included as
Model Certificate Q in the Appendix. The registered ultimate vendor must have the certificate
at the time the credit or payment is claimed.
Kerosene for use partly in commercial aviation and partly in nonexempt, noncommercial aviation. If the fuel is used partly for use in
commercial aviation and partly for use in nonexempt, noncommercial aviation, the operator
may identify, either at the time of purchase or after the kerosene has been used, the amount
that will be (or has been) used in commercial
aviation. At the same time, the operator would
either make the claim or waive the right to make
the claim for credit or refund of the kerosene for
use in commercial and nonexempt, noncommercial aviation.
If the operator doesn't identify the amount of
kerosene that will be (or has been) used in commercial aviation, the operator may provide a
certificate to the ultimate vendor similar to
Model Certificate Q in the Appendix. For kerosene purchased with the certificate, used in
commercial aviation, and taxed at $0.244 per
Publication 510 (12-2025)

gallon, use of the certificate will be treated as a
waiver of the right to claim a credit or refund for
the $0.025 per gallon part of the tax. The ultimate vendor may make this claim. The operator
may make a claim for the $0.175 tax per gallon
of the kerosene, but can't waive the right to
make the claim for the $0.175 tax per gallon.
Kerosene for use in aviation by a state or
local government. Only the registered ultimate vendor may claim a credit or payment for
sales of kerosene for use in aviation to a state
or local government for its exclusive use (including essential government use by an Indian tribal
government). The kerosene for use in aviation
must be purchased by the state without the use
of a credit card in order for the ultimate vendor
to make the claim. The ultimate vendor must be
registered by the IRS (activity letter “UV”) and
have the required certificate from the ultimate
purchaser. A sample certificate is included as
Model Certificate P in the Appendix. The registered ultimate vendor must have the certificate
at the time the credit or payment is claimed.
Credit card purchases. If taxed kerosene for
use in aviation is purchased with a credit card
issued to a state, the person who extended
credit to the state (the credit card issuer) is treated as the person that paid the tax and makes
the claim if the credit card issuer:
• Is registered by the IRS;
• Has established that the amount of tax
hasn’t been collected from the person who
purchased the kerosene, or has obtained
written consent from the ultimate purchaser to the allowance of the credit or refund;
• Has repaid or agreed to repay the amount
of the tax to the ultimate vendor, has obtained the written consent of the ultimate
vendor to the allowance of the credit or refund, or has made arrangements that provide the ultimate vendor with reimbursement of the tax.

collect the tax from the ultimate purchaser and
only the ultimate purchaser may make the
claim.

Other Fuels (Including
Alternative Fuels)
Credit or refund for nontaxable use of taxed
other fuels may be allowable to an ultimate purchaser. While tax is generally imposed on delivery, other fuels are taxed prior to delivery in the
case of certain bulk sales described in chapter 1. The following are the nontaxable uses of
other fuels for which a credit or refund may be
allowable to the ultimate purchaser.
• On a farm for farming purposes.
• Off-highway business use.
• In a boat engaged in commercial fishing.
• In certain intercity and local buses.
• In a school bus.
• In a qualified local bus.
• Exclusive use by a qualified blood collector
organization.
• Exclusive use by a nonprofit educational
organization.
• Exclusive use by a state, political subdivision of a state, or the District of Columbia.
• In an aircraft or vehicle owned by an aircraft museum.
• In any boat operated by the United States
for its exclusive use or any vessel of war of
any foreign nation.

Refunds or Payments of
Second Tax
Caution: The tax on dyed diesel fuel for inland
waterways fuel use applies at the rate listed on
Form 720. This is in addition to all other taxes
imposed on the sale or use of the fuel. The section 4081(e) refund can't be claimed.

If the requirements above aren’t met by the
credit card issuer, the credit card issuer must

No.

Type of Use

1
2

On a farm for farming purposes
Off-highway business use (for business use other than in a highway vehicle
registered or required to be registered for highway use) (other than use in mobile
machinery)
Export
In a boat engaged in commercial fishing
In certain intercity and local buses
In a qualified local bus
In a bus transporting students and employees of schools (school buses)
For diesel fuel and kerosene (other than kerosene used in aviation) used other
than as a fuel in the propulsion engine of a train or diesel-powered highway
vehicle (but not off-highway business use)
In foreign trade
Certain helicopter and fixed-wing aircraft uses
Exclusive use by a qualified blood collector organization
In a highway vehicle owned by the United States that isn't used on a highway
Exclusive use by a nonprofit educational organization
Exclusive use by a state, political subdivision of a state, or the District of
Columbia
In an aircraft or vehicle owned by an aircraft museum
In military aircraft

9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Conditions to allowance of refund or payment. A claim for refund or payment of the tax
is allowed only if all the following conditions are
met.
1. A tax on the fuel was paid to the government and not credited or refunded (the
“first tax”).
2. After the first tax was imposed, another tax
was imposed on the same fuel and was
paid to the government (the “second tax”).
3. The person that paid the second tax filed a
timely claim for refund or payments containing the information required. See Refunds or Payments of Second Tax, later.
4. The person that paid the first tax has met
the reporting requirements.
Reporting requirements. Generally, the person that paid the first tax must file a “First Taxpayer's Report” with its Form 720 for the quarter
to which the report relates. A model first taxpayer's report is shown in the Appendix as Model
Certificate B. The report must contain all information needed to complete the model certificate.
By the due date for filing the Form 720, you
must also send a separate copy of the report to
the following address.
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Cincinnati, OH 45999-0555
Write “EXCISE – FIRST TAXPAYER'S REPORT”
across the top of that copy.

Table 2-1. Type of Use Table

3
4
5
6
7
8

If the tax is paid and reported to the government on more than one taxable event for a taxable fuel under section 4081, the person paying
the “second tax” may claim a refund or payment
(without interest) of that tax if certain conditions
and reporting requirements are met. No credit
against any tax is allowed for this tax. For information about taxable events, see the discussions under Gasoline, Diesel Fuel and Kerosene, and Kerosene for Use in Aviation in
chapter 1.

Chapter 2

Fuel Tax Credits and Refunds

Optional reporting. A first taxpayer's report isn't required for the tax imposed on:
• Removal at a terminal rack,
• Nonbulk entries into the United States, and
• Removals or sales by blenders.
However, if the person liable for the tax expects
that another tax will be imposed on that fuel,
that person should (but isn't required to) file a
first taxpayer's report.
Providing information. The first taxpayer
must give a copy of the report to the buyer of
the fuel within the bulk transfer/terminal system
or to the owner of the fuel immediately before
the first tax was imposed, if the first taxpayer
isn't the owner at that time. If an optional report
is filed, a copy should (but isn't required to) be
given to the buyer or owner.
A person that receives a copy of the first taxpayer's report and later sells the fuel within the
bulk transfer/terminal system must give the
copy and a “Statement of Subsequent Seller” to
the buyer. If the later sale is outside the bulk
transfer/terminal system and that person
17

expects that another tax will be imposed, that
person should (but isn't required to) give the
copy and the statement to the buyer. A model
statement of subsequent seller is shown in the
Appendix as Model Certificate A. The statement
must contain all information necessary to complete the model.
If the first taxpayer's report relates to fuel
sold to more than one buyer, copies of that report must be made when the fuel is divided.
Each buyer must be given a copy of the report.
Refund or payment claim. You must have
filed Form 720 and paid the second tax before
you file for a refund or payment of that tax. You
must make your claim for refund on Form 8849.
Complete Schedule 5 (Form 8849) and attach it
to your Form 8849. Don't include this claim with
a claim under another tax provision. You must
not have included the second tax in the price of
the fuel and must not have collected it from the
purchaser. You must submit the following information with your claim.
• A copy of the first taxpayer's report.
• A copy of the statement of the subsequent
seller if the fuel was bought from someone
other than the first taxpayer.

Definitions of
Nontaxable Uses
This section provides definitions of the terms
used in Table 2-1 for nontaxable uses. If applicable, the type of use number from Table 2-1 is
indicated in each heading.
Type of use table. The first column of the table is the number you enter on Form 4136,
Form 8849, or Form 720, Schedule C, for that
type of use. For type of use 2, the mobile machinery parenthetical applies only to Form 8849
and Form 720.
On a farm for farming purposes (No. 1). On
a farm for farming purposes means fuel used in
carrying on a trade or business of farming, on a
farm in the United States, and for farming purposes.
Farm. A farm includes livestock, dairy, fish,
poultry, fruit, fur-bearing animals, and truck
farms; orchards; plantations; ranches; nurseries; ranges; and feed yards for fattening cattle. It
also includes structures such as greenhouses
used primarily for the raising of agricultural or
horticultural commodities. A fish farm is an area
where fish are grown or raised — not merely
caught or harvested.
Farming purposes. As an owner, tenant, or
operator, you use fuel on a farm for farming purposes if you use it in any of the following ways.
1. To cultivate the soil or to raise or harvest
any agricultural or horticultural commodity.
2. To raise, shear, feed, care for, train, or
manage livestock, bees, poultry, fur-bearing animals, or wildlife.
3. To operate, manage, conserve, improve,
or maintain your farm and its tools and
equipment.
18

4. To handle, dry, pack, grade, or store any
raw agricultural or horticultural commodity.
For this use to qualify, you must have produced more than half the commodity so
treated during the tax year. Commodity
means a single raw product. For example,
apples and peaches are two separate
commodities.
5. To plant, cultivate, care for, or cut trees or
to prepare (other than sawing logs into
lumber, chipping, or other milling) trees for
market, but only if the planting, etc., is incidental to your farming operations. Your
tree operations will be incidental only if
they're minor in nature when compared to
the total farming operations.
If any other person, such as a neighbor or
custom operator, performs a service for you on
your farm for any of the purposes listed in (1) or
(2), you're considered to be the ultimate purchaser that used the fuel on a farm for farming
purposes.
If doubt exists whether the owner, the tenant, or the operator of the farm bought the fuel,
determine who bore the cost of the fuel. For example, if the owner of a farm and the tenant
equally share the cost of gasoline that is used
on a farm for farming purposes, each can claim
a credit for the tax on one-half of the fuel used.
Custom application of fertilizer and pesticide. Fuel used on a farm for farming purposes includes fuel used in the application of fertilizer, pesticides, or other substances, including
aerial applications. Generally, the applicator is
treated as having used the fuel on a farm for
farming purposes. For aviation gasoline, the
aerial applicator makes the claim as the ultimate purchaser. For kerosene used in aviation,
the ultimate purchaser may make the claim or
waive their right to make the claim to the registered ultimate vendor.
Fuel used between airfield and farm.
Fuel used by an aerial applicator for the direct
flight between the airfield and one or more
farms is treated as a farming purpose.
Fuel not used for farming. Fuel isn't used
on a farm for farming purposes if it's used in any
of the following ways.
• Off the farm, such as on the highway or in
noncommercial aviation, other than fuel
used between the airfield and farm described above, even if the fuel is used in transporting livestock, feed, crops, or equipment.
• For personal use, such as mowing the
lawn.
• In processing, packaging, freezing, or canning operations.
• In processing crude gum into gum spirits of
turpentine or gum resin or in processing
maple sap into maple syrup or maple
sugar.
Off-highway business use (No. 2). Off-highway business use means fuel used in a trade or
business or in an income-producing activity
other than as a fuel in a highway vehicle registered or required to be registered for use on
public highways. The terms “highway vehicle,”
“public highway,” and “registered” are defined
Chapter 2

Fuel Tax Credits and Refunds

below. Don't consider any use in a boat as an
off-highway business use.
Off-highway business use includes fuels
used in any of the following ways.
• In stationary machines such as generators,
compressors, power saws, and similar
equipment.
• For cleaning purposes.
• In forklift trucks, bulldozers, and earthmovers.
Generally, this use doesn't include nonbusiness use of fuel, such as use by minibikes,
snowmobiles, power lawn mowers, chain saws,
and other yard equipment.
Example. Shannon owns a landscaping
business. Shannon uses power lawn mowers
and chain saws in the landscaping business.
The gasoline used in the power lawn mowers
and chain saws qualifies as fuel used in an
off-highway business use. The gasoline used in
the personal lawn mower at home doesn't qualify.
Highway vehicle. A highway vehicle is any
self-propelled vehicle designed to carry a load
over public highways, whether or not it's also
designed to perform other functions. Examples
of vehicles designed to carry a load over public
highways are passenger automobiles, motorcycles, buses, and highway-type trucks and truck
tractors. A vehicle is a highway vehicle even
though the vehicle's design allows it to perform
a highway transportation function for only one of
the following.
• A particular type of load, such as passengers, furnishings, and personal effects (as
in a house, office, or utility trailer).
• A special kind of cargo, goods, supplies, or
materials.
• Some off-highway task unrelated to highway transportation, except as discussed
next.
Vehicles not considered highway vehicles. Generally, the following kinds of vehicles
aren’t considered highway vehicles for purposes of the credit or refund of fuel taxes.
1. Specially designed mobile machinery
for nontransportation functions. A
self-propelled vehicle isn't a highway vehicle if all the following apply.
a. The chassis has permanently mounted to it machinery or equipment used
to perform certain operations (construction, manufacturing, drilling, mining, timbering, processing, farming, or
similar operations) if the operation of
the machinery or equipment is unrelated to transportation on or off the public highways.
b. The chassis has been specially designed to serve only as a mobile carriage and mount (and power source, if
applicable) for the machinery or
equipment, whether or not the machinery or equipment is in operation.
c. The chassis couldn’t, because of its
special design and without substantial
structural modification, be used as
part of a vehicle designed to carry any
other load.
Publication 510 (12-2025)

d. The vehicle must have traveled less
than 7,500 miles on public highways
during the taxable year.
2. Vehicles specially designed for
off-highway transportation. A vehicle
isn't treated as a highway vehicle if the vehicle is specially designed for the primary
function of transporting a particular type of
load other than over the public highway
and because of this special design, the vehicle's capability to transport a load over a
public highway is substantially limited or
impaired.
To make this determination, you can
take into account the vehicle's size,
whether the vehicle is subject to licensing,
safety, or other requirements, and whether
the vehicle can transport a load at a sustained speed of at least 25 miles per hour.
It doesn't matter that the vehicle can carry
heavier loads off highway than it's allowed
to carry over the highway.
3. Nontransportation trailers and semitrailers. A trailer or semitrailer isn't treated
as a highway vehicle if it's specially designed to function only as an enclosed stationary shelter for carrying on a nontransportation function at an off-highway site.
For example, a trailer that is capable only
of functioning as an office for an off-highway construction operation isn't a highway
vehicle.
Public highway. A public highway includes
any road in the United States that isn't a private
roadway. This includes federal, state, county,
and city roads and streets.
Registered. A vehicle is considered registered
when it's registered or required to be registered
for highway use under the law of any state, the
District of Columbia, or any foreign country in
which it's operated or situated. Any highway vehicle operated under a dealer's tag, license, or
permit is considered registered. A highway vehicle isn't considered registered solely because a
special permit allows the vehicle to be operated
at particular times and under specified conditions.
Dual use of propulsion motor. Off-highway
business use doesn't include any fuel used in
the propulsion motor of a registered highway vehicle even though that motor also operates special equipment by means of a power take-off or
power transfer. It doesn't matter if the special
equipment is mounted on the vehicle.
Example. The motor of a registered concrete-mixer truck operates both the engine and
the mixing unit by means of a power take-off.
The fuel used in the motor to run the mixer isn't
off-highway business use.
Use in separate motor. Off-highway business
use includes fuel used in a separate motor to
operate special equipment, such as a refrigeration unit, pump, generator, or mixing unit. If you
draw fuel from the same tank that supplies fuel
to the propulsion motor, you must figure the
quantity used in the separate motor operating
the special equipment. You may make a reason-

Publication 510 (12-2025)

able estimate based on your operating experience and supported by your records.
You can use devices that measure the miles
the vehicle has traveled (such as hubometers)
to figure the gallons of fuel used to propel the
vehicle. Add to this amount the fuel consumed
while idling or warming up the motor before propelling the vehicle. The difference between your
total fuel used and the fuel used to propel the
vehicle is the fuel used in the separate motor.
Example. Hazel owns a refrigerated truck.
It has a separate motor for the refrigeration unit.
The same tank supplies both motors. Using the
truck's hubometer, Hazel figures that 90% of the
fuel was used to propel the truck. Therefore,
10% of the fuel is used in an off-highway business use.
Fuel lost or destroyed. You can't treat fuel
lost or destroyed through spillage, fire, or other
casualty as fuel used in an off-highway business use.
Export (No. 3). Export means fuel transported
from the United States with the intention that the
fuel remain in a foreign country or territory of the
United States. Fuel isn't exported if it's in the
fuel supply tank of a vehicle or aircraft.
In a boat engaged in commercial fishing
(No. 4). In a boat engaged in commercial fishing means fuel used in taking, catching, processing, or transporting fish, shellfish, or other
aquatic life for commercial purposes, such as
selling or processing the catch, on a specific trip
basis. They include boats used in both fresh
and saltwater fishing. They don't include boats
used for both sport fishing and commercial fishing on the same trip.
In certain intercity and local buses (No. 5).
In certain intercity and local buses means fuel
used in a bus engaged in furnishing (for compensation) passenger land transportation available to the general public. The bus must be engaged in one of the following activities.
• Scheduled transportation along regular
routes.
• Nonscheduled operations if the seating capacity of the bus is at least 20 adults, not
including the driver. Vans and similar vehicles used for van-pooling or taxi service
don't qualify.
Available to the general public. This means
you offer service to more than a limited number
of persons or organizations. If a bus operator
normally provides charter operations through
travel agencies but has buses available for
chartering by the general public, this service is
available to the general public. A bus doesn't
qualify when its operator uses it to provide exclusive services to only one person, group, or
organization. Also, intercity bus transportation
doesn't include transporting students and employees of schools or intercity transportation in
a qualified local bus.

Chapter 2

Fuel Tax Credits and Refunds

In a qualified local bus (No. 6). In a qualified
local bus means fuel used in a bus meeting all
the following requirements.
• It's engaged in furnishing (for compensation) intracity passenger land transportation available to the general public.
• It operates along scheduled, regular
routes.
• It has a seating capacity of at least 20
adults (excluding the driver).
• It's under contract with (or is receiving
more than a nominal subsidy from) any
state or local government to furnish the
transportation.
Intracity passenger land transportation.
This is the land transportation of passengers
between points located within the same metropolitan area. It includes transportation along
routes that cross state, city, or county boundaries if the routes remain within the metropolitan
area.
Under contract. A bus is under contract with a
state or local government only if the contract imposes a bona fide obligation on the bus operator to furnish the transportation.
More than a nominal subsidy. A subsidy is
more than nominal if it's reasonably expected to
exceed an amount equal to 3 cents multiplied
by the number of gallons of fuel used in buses
on subsidized routes. A company that operates
its buses along subsidized and unsubsidized intracity routes may consider its buses qualified
local buses only when the buses are used on
the subsidized intracity routes.
In a school bus (No. 7). In a school bus
means fuel used in a bus engaged in the transportation of students or employees of schools.
A school is an educational organization with a
regular faculty and curriculum and a regularly
enrolled body of students who attend the place
where the educational activities occur.
For diesel fuel and kerosene (other than
kerosene used in aviation) used other than
as a fuel (No. 8). Diesel fuel and kerosene
(other than kerosene used in aviation) used
other than as a fuel in the propulsion engine of a
diesel-powered highway vehicle or diesel-powered train (not including off-highway business
use) means undyed diesel fuel and undyed kerosene used:
• For home heating, lighting, and cooking;
• In boats;
• In stationary machines, such as generators
and compressors;
• For cleaning purposes; or
• In minibikes and snowmobiles.
In foreign trade (No. 9). In foreign trade
means fuel used in civil aircraft employed in foreign trade or trade between the United States
and any of its territories. The term trade includes the transportation of persons or property
for hire and the making of the necessary preparations for such transportation. In the case of
aircraft registered in a foreign country, the country must allow reciprocal benefits for aircraft registered in the United States.

19

Certain helicopter and fixed-wing aircraft
uses (No. 10). Includes:
Certain helicopter uses. Certain helicopter uses means fuel used by a helicopter for any
of the following purposes.
1. Transporting individuals, equipment, or
supplies in the exploration for, or the development or removal of, hard minerals,
oil, or gas.
2. Planting, cultivating, cutting, transporting,
or caring for trees (including logging operations).
3. Providing emergency medical transportation.
During a use described in items (1) and (2),
the helicopter must not take off from, or land at,
a facility eligible for assistance under the Airport
and Airway Development Act of 1970, or otherwise use services provided pursuant to section
44509 or 44913(b) or subchapter I of chapter 471 of title 49, United States Code. For item
(1), treat each flight segment as a separate
flight.
Fixed-wing aircraft uses. Fixed-wing aircraft uses means fuel used by a fixed-wing aircraft for any of the following purposes.
1. Planting, cultivating, cutting, transporting,
or caring for trees (including logging operations).
2. Providing emergency medical transportation. The aircraft must be equipped for,
and exclusively dedicated on that flight to,
acute care emergency medical services.
During a use described in item (1), the aircraft
must not take off from, or land at, a facility eligible for assistance under the Airport and Airway
Development Act of 1970, or otherwise use
services provided pursuant to section 44509 or
44913(b) or subchapter I of chapter 471 of title
49, United States Code.
Exclusive use by a qualified blood collector
organization (No. 11). Exclusive use by a
qualified blood collector organization means
fuel used by the qualified blood collector organization for its exclusive use in the collection, storage, or transportation of blood.
Qualified blood collector organization. A
qualified blood collector organization is one that
is:
• Described in section 501(c)(3) and exempt
from tax under section 501(a),
• Primarily engaged in the activity of collecting human blood,
• Registered by the IRS, and
• Registered by the Food and Drug Administration to collect blood.
In a highway vehicle owned by the United
States that isn't used on a highway (No. 12).
In a highway vehicle owned by the United
States that isn't used on a highway means fuel
used in a vehicle that wasn't used on public
highways during the period covered by the
claim. This use applies whether or not the vehicle is registered or required to be registered for
highway use.

20

Exclusive use by a nonprofit educational
organization (No. 13). Exclusive use by a
nonprofit educational organization means fuel
used by an organization exempt from income
tax under section 501(a) that meets both of the
following requirements.
• It has a regular faculty and curriculum.
• It has a regularly enrolled body of students
who attend the place where the instruction
normally occurs.
A nonprofit educational organization also includes a school operated by a church or other
organization described in section 501(c)(3) if
the school meets the above requirements.
Exclusive use by a state, political subdivision of a state, or the District of Columbia
(No. 14). Exclusive use by a state, political
subdivision of a state, or the District of Columbia means fuel purchased by the state or local
government for its exclusive use. A state or local
government is any state, any political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia. An Indian tribal government is treated as a state only
if the fuel is used in an activity that involves the
exercise of an essential tribal government function. Gasoline, diesel fuel, and kerosene used
by the American Red Cross is considered to be
the use of these fuels by a state.
In an aircraft or vehicle owned by an aircraft museum (No. 15). In an aircraft or vehicle owned by an aircraft museum means fuel
used in an aircraft or vehicle that is owned by an
organization that meets all the following requirements.
1. It's exempt from income tax as an organization described in section 501(c)(3).
2. It's operated as a museum under a state
(or District of Columbia) charter.
3. It's operated exclusively for acquiring, exhibiting, and caring for aircraft of the type
used for combat or transport in
World War II.
The aircraft or vehicle (such as a ground
servicing vehicle for aircraft) must be used exclusively for the purposes described in item (3).
In military aircraft (No. 16). In a military aircraft means fuel used in an aircraft owned by
the United States or any foreign nation and constituting a part of its armed forces.
In commercial aviation (other than foreign
trade). See Commercial aviation, earlier, for
the definition.
Use in a train. Use in a train means fuel used
in the propulsion engine of equipment or machinery that rides on rails. This includes use in a locomotive, work train, switching engine, and
track maintenance machine.

Filing Claims
This section tells you how to make a claim for a
credit or refund of excise taxes on fuels. This
section also covers recordkeeping requirements
and when to include the credit or refund in your
income.
Chapter 2

Fuel Tax Credits and Refunds

Generally, you will provide all the information
needed to claim a credit or refund when you
properly complete Form 8849; Form 4136; or
Form 720, Schedule C. In some cases, you will
have to attach additional information. You need
to keep records that support your claim for a
credit or refund.
Records: Keep at your principal place of business all records needed to enable the IRS to
verify that you're the person entitled to claim a
credit or refund and the amount you claimed
Ultimate purchaser. Ultimate purchasers may
make claims for the nontaxable use of fuels on
Form 4136; Schedule 1 (Form 8849); or Form
720, Schedule C, if reporting excise tax liability
on that return. If you're an ultimate purchaser,
you must keep the following records.
• The number of gallons purchased and
used during the period covered by your
claim.
• The dates of the purchases.
• The names and addresses of suppliers
and amounts purchased from each in the
period covered by your claim.
• The nontaxable use for which you used the
fuel.
• The number of gallons used for each nontaxable use.
It's important that your records show separately
the number of gallons used for each nontaxable
use that qualifies as a claim. If the fuel is exported, you must have proof of exportation.
For more information about keeping records,
see Pub. 583, Starting a Business and Keeping
Records, or chapter 1 of Pub. 17, Your Federal
Income Tax for Individuals.
Exceptions.
1. Generally, the ultimate purchaser may not
claim a credit or refund for undyed diesel
fuel, undyed kerosene, or kerosene for use
in aviation sold for the exclusive use of a
state or local government. However, see
Claims by credit card issuers, later, for an
exception.
2. The ultimate purchaser may not claim a
credit or refund as follows.
a. The ultimate purchaser of gasoline or
aviation gasoline used by a state or local government for its exclusive use or
by a nonprofit educational organization for its exclusive use may waive its
right to make a claim by providing a
certificate that is signed under penalties of perjury by a person authorized
to bind the ultimate purchaser and is
in the same format as the Model Certificate M. A new certificate is required
each year or when any information in
the current certificate expires.
b. The ultimate purchaser of kerosene
for use in commercial aviation or noncommercial aviation (other than nonexempt, noncommercial aviation and
exclusive use by a state, political subdivision of a state, or the District of
Columbia) may waive its right to make
a claim by providing a waiver that is
signed under penalties of perjury by a
person authorized to bind the ultimate
Publication 510 (12-2025)

purchaser and is in the same format
as the Model Waiver L. A new waiver
is required each year or when any information in the current waiver expires.
c. The ultimate purchaser of undyed diesel fuel or undyed kerosene used in
certain intercity and local buses may
waive its right to make a claim by providing a waiver that is signed under
penalties of perjury by a person authorized to bind the ultimate purchaser and is in the same format as
the Model Waiver N. A new waiver is
required each year or when any information in the current waiver expires.
d. The ultimate purchaser of kerosene
for use in nonexempt, noncommercial
aviation must provide a certificate that
is signed under penalties of perjury by
a person authorized to bind the ultimate purchaser and is in the same
format as the Model Certificate Q. A
new certificate is required each year
or when any information in the current
certificate expires.
Registered ultimate vendor. Registered ultimate vendors may make claims for certain
sales of fuels on Form 720, Schedule C; Form
4136; or Schedule 2 (Form 8849) if reporting
excise tax liability on that return. If you're a registered ultimate vendor, you must keep certain
information pertaining to the sale of the fuel.
To make a claim, you must have sold the fuel
at a tax-excluded price, repaid the tax to the
buyer, or obtained the buyer's written consent to
the allowance of the claim. You're required to
have a valid certificate or waiver in your possession in order to make the claim.
In addition, you must have a registration
number that hasn’t been revoked or suspended.
See Form 637.
State use. To make a claim as an ultimate
vendor (state), you must have a UV registration
number and the fuel can't be purchased with a
credit card, as explained below. If you sell
undyed diesel fuel, undyed kerosene, or kerosene for use in aviation for use by a state or local government, you must keep the following information.
• The name and TIN of each person (government unit) that bought the fuel.
• The number of gallons sold to each person.
• An unexpired certificate from the buyer.
See Model Certificate P in the Appendix.
The certificate expires on the earlier of 1
year after the date of the certificate or the
date a new certificate is given to the registered ultimate vendor.
Nonprofit educational organization and
state use. To make a claim as an ultimate vendor (nonprofit educational organization or
state), you must have a UV registration number
and the fuel can't be purchased with a credit
card, as explained later. If you sell gasoline or
aviation gasoline to a nonprofit educational organization for its exclusive use or to a state or

Publication 510 (12-2025)

local government for its exclusive use, you must
keep the following information.
• The name and TIN of each person (nonprofit educational organization or government unit) that bought the fuel.
• The number of gallons sold to each person.
• An unexpired certificate from the buyer.
See Model Certificate M in the Appendix.
The certificate expires on the earlier of 1
year after the date of the certificate or the
date a new certificate is given to the registered ultimate vendor.

purchased by an exempt user with the use of a
credit card, the registered credit card issuer is
the only person who can make the claim. An exempt user for this purpose is:
• For gasoline or aviation gasoline, a state or
local government (including essential government use by an Indian tribal government) or a nonprofit educational organization; or
• For diesel fuel, kerosene, or kerosene for
use in aviation, a state or local government
(including essential government use by an
Indian tribal government).

Blocked pump. To make a claim as an ultimate vendor (blocked pump), you must have a
"UP" registration number. If you sell undyed kerosene (other than kerosene for use in aviation)
from a pump that qualifies as a blocked pump
because it's locked by you after each sale and
is unlocked by you at the request of the buyer,
you must keep the following information for
each sale of more than 5 gallons.
• The date of each sale.
• The name and address of the buyer.
• The number of gallons sold to that buyer.

If gasoline is purchased without the use of a
credit card, then the registered ultimate vendor
of the gasoline may make the claim for refund or
credit. However, if the gasoline is purchased
with a credit card issued to a state, but the
credit card issuer isn't registered by the IRS or
doesn't meet the conditions described, the
credit card issuer must collect the tax and the
state may make the claim.
If diesel fuel, kerosene, or kerosene for use
in aviation is purchased without the use of a
credit card, the registered ultimate vendor may
make the claim for refund or credit. A state isn't
allowed to make a claim for these fuels. However, if the diesel fuel or kerosene is purchased
with a credit card issued to a state, but the
credit card issuer isn't registered by the IRS or
doesn't meet the conditions described, the
credit card issuer must collect the tax and the
state may make the claim.
The claim from the credit card issuer must
contain the following information as it applies to
the fuel covered in the claim.
• The total number of gallons.
• Its registration number.
• A statement that it hasn’t collected the
amount of tax from the ultimate purchaser
or has obtained the written consent of the
ultimate purchaser to make the claim.
• A statement that it has repaid or agreed to
repay the amount of tax to the ultimate
vendor, has obtained the written consent of
the ultimate vendor to make the claim, or
has otherwise made arrangements that directly or indirectly provide the ultimate vendor with reimbursement of the tax.
• Has in its possession an unexpired certificate similar to Model Certificate R in the
Appendix and has no reason to believe any
of the information in the certificate is false.

Certain intercity and local bus use. To
make a claim as an ultimate vendor of undyed
diesel fuel or undyed kerosene used in certain
intercity and local buses, you must have a UB
registration number. You must keep the following information.
• The date of each sale.
• The name and address of the buyer.
• The number of gallons sold to the buyer.
• A copy of the waiver signed by the buyer at
the time the credit or payment is claimed.
See Model Waiver N in the Appendix.
Kerosene for use in commercial aviation
or noncommercial aviation. To make a claim
as an ultimate vendor of kerosene for use in
commercial aviation (other than foreign trade)
or noncommercial aviation (other than nonexempt, noncommercial aviation and exclusive
use by a state, political subdivision of a state, or
the District of Columbia), you must have a UA
registration number. See Kerosene for Use in
Aviation, earlier, for a list of nontaxable uses.
You must keep the following information.
• The date of each sale.
• The name and address of the buyer.
• The number of gallons sold to the buyer.
• A copy of the waiver signed by the buyer at
the time the credit or payment is claimed.
See Model Waiver L in the Appendix.
Kerosene for use in nonexempt, noncommercial aviation. To make a claim as an
ultimate vendor of kerosene for use in nonexempt, noncommercial aviation, you must
have a UA registration number. You must keep
the following information.
• The date of each sale.
• The name and address of the buyer.
• The number of gallons sold to the buyer.
• A copy of the certificate signed by the
buyer at the time the credit or payment is
claimed. See Model Certificate Q in the
Appendix.
Claims by credit card issuers. For sales of
gasoline, aviation gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene, or kerosene for use in aviation that are
Chapter 2

Fuel Tax Credits and Refunds

Taxpayer identification number (TIN). To file
a claim, you must have a TIN. Your TIN can be:
• An employer identification number (EIN);
• A social security number (SSN); or
• An individual taxpayer identification number (ITIN), if you're an alien individual and
don't have and aren’t eligible to get an
SSN.
If you normally file only a U.S. individual income tax return (such as Form 1040 or
1040-NR), use your SSN or ITIN. You get an
SSN by filing Form SS-5, Application for a Social Security Card, with the Social Security Administration. To get an ITIN, file Form W-7, Application
for
IRS
Individual
Taxpayer
Identification Number, with the IRS.
If you operate a business, use your EIN. If
you don't have an EIN, you may apply for one
online by going to IRS.gov/EIN. You may also
21

apply for an EIN by faxing or mailing Form SS-4,
Application for Employer Identification Number,
to the IRS.

Claiming a Refund
Generally, you may claim a refund of excise
taxes on Form 8849. Complete and attach to
Form 8849 the appropriate Form 8849 schedules. The Instructions for Form 8849 and the
separate instructions for each schedule explain
the requirements for making a claim for refund.
If you file Form 720, you can use the Form 720,
Schedule C, for your refund claims for the quarter. See the Instructions for Form 720. Don't
claim a refund on Form 8849 for any amount for
which you have filed or will file a claim on Form
720, Schedule C; Form 8864; or Form 4136.
Only one credit may be taken for each
amount of any fuel type.

Claiming a Credit on Form
4136
A credit may be claimed for certain uses and
sales of fuels on Form 4136 when you file your
income tax return at the end of the year. If you
meet certain requirements (discussed earlier),
you may be able to make a claim during the
year.
Credit only. You can claim the following
taxes only as a credit on Form 4136.
• Tax on fuels used for nontaxable uses if the
total for your tax year is less than $750.
• Tax on fuel you didn’t include in any claim
for refund previously filed for any quarter of
your tax year.
• Tax on fuel you used in mobile machinery
(off-highway business use) that traveled
less than 7,500 miles on public highways.
Only one credit may be taken for each
amount of any fuel type. Don't claim a credit for
any amount for which you have filed a refund or
credit claim on Form 8849; 8864; or credit on
Form 720, Schedule C.
When to file. You can claim a fuel tax credit on
your income tax return for the year you used the
fuel (or sold the fuel in the case of a registered
ultimate vendor claim).
Tip: You may be able to make a fuel tax claim
on an amended income tax return for the year
you used the fuel. Generally, you must file an
amended return by the later of 3 years from the
date you filed your original return or within 2
years from the date you paid the income tax.
How to claim a credit. How you claim a credit
depends on whether you're an individual, partnership, corporation, S corporation, or farmers'
cooperative association.

share of the number of gallons of each fuel sold
or used for a nontaxable use, the type of use,
and the applicable credit per gallon. Each partner claims the credit on their income tax return
for the partner's share of the fuel used by the
partnership.
Other entities. Corporations, S corporations, farmers' cooperative associations, and
trusts must make the claim on the appropriate
line of their applicable income tax return.
Federal, state, and local governments, and
certain tax-exempt organizations (as discussed
earlier, under Claiming A Refund) must use
Form 8849, not Form 4136, to make an annual
claim.

Including the Credit or
Refund in Income
Caution: In most situations, the amount
claimed as a credit or refund will be less than
the amount deducted as fuel tax expense because the LUST tax is generally not refunded.
Include any credit or refund of excise taxes
on fuels in your gross income if you claimed the
total cost of the fuel (including the excise taxes)
as an expense deduction that reduced your income tax liability.
The year you include a credit or refund in
gross income depends on whether you use the
cash or an accrual method of accounting.
Cash method. If you use the cash method and
file a claim for refund, include the refund
amount in your gross income for the tax year in
which you receive the refund. If you claim a
credit on your income tax return, include the
credit amount in gross income for the tax year in
which you file Form 4136. If you file an amended return and claim a credit, include the credit
amount in gross income for the tax year in
which you receive the credit.
Example 1. Sharon Brown, a cash basis
farmer, filed a 2025 Form 1040 on March 3,
2026. On the Schedule F (Form 1040), Sharon
deducted the total cost of gasoline (including
$110 of excise taxes) used on the farm. Then,
on Form 4136, Sharon claimed $108 as a
credit. Sharon reports the $108 as additional income on the 2026 Schedule F (Form 1040).
Example 2. March Corporation uses the
calendar year as its tax year. For 2025, the following amounts of excise tax were included in
the cost of gasoline the corporation used each
quarter in a nontaxable use.
Calendar Quarters . . . .

Fuel Tax
Expense

Fuel Tax
Claim

Jan. 1 – March 31 . . . . . .

$1,300

$1,293

Individuals. You claim the credit on Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 12. If you wouldn’t otherwise have to file an income tax return, you must
do so to get a fuel tax credit.

April 1 – June 30 . . . . . . .

1,100

1,094

July 1 – Sept. 30 . . . . . . .

400

397

Oct. 1 – Dec. 31 . . . . . . .

300

298

Partnerships. Partnerships claim the credit
by including a statement on Schedule K-1
(Form 1065), Partner's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, etc., showing each partner's

Total

$3,100

$3,082

22

The corporation deducts the entire cost of
the gasoline (including the $3,100 in excise
Chapter 2

Fuel Tax Credits and Refunds

taxes) it used during the year as a business expense on its corporation income tax return,
thereby reducing its corporate income tax liability for that year.
Form 8849. March Corporation files quarterly refund claims for the first 2 quarters (ending March 31 and June 30). It can't file a quarterly refund claim for the third or fourth quarter
because it didn’t meet the $750 minimum requirement.
Since March Corporation uses the cash
method of accounting, the corporation includes
$2,387 ($1,293 + $1,094) in its gross income for
the tax year in which it receives the refunds
(2025, for the purposes of this example).
Form 4136. The corporation claims the remaining amounts ($397 + $298) as a credit on
its 2025 income tax return by attaching Form
4136. It files its tax return in 2026. It includes
this credit ($695) in its 2026 gross income.
Example 3. Tyler S. Sands used undyed
diesel fuel in vehicles used in the construction
business. The vehicles weren’t registered (or required to be registered) for highway use. In the
fourth quarter of 2024 income tax year, which
ends in December, Tyler used 3,000 gallons of
undyed diesel fuel. The excise tax on the 3,000
gallons of undyed diesel fuel used was $732
(tax of $0.244 per gallon).
Because the tax is less than $750, Tyler
must claim a credit for the tax on the 2024 income tax return. Tyler fills out Form 4136 and
attaches it to the 2024 income tax return, which
Tyler files in 2025. Tyler enters $729 (credit of
$0.243 per gallon) on Schedule 3 (Form 1040),
line 12.
Tyler uses the cash method of accounting.
On the 2024 Schedule C (Form 1040) Tyler deducts the total cost of the fuel, including the tax.
When Tyler files a 2025 Form 1040, it will include the $729 credit shown on the 2024 Form
4136 as additional income on the Schedule C
(Form 1040) for 2025.
For the first 2 quarters of 2025, Tyler's records show the following.
Quarter

Gallons Used

Claim
Tax Rate

Claim
Amount

First
Second

2,750
2,500

0.243
0.243

$668.25
607.50

Tyler couldn’t file a claim for a refund for the
first quarter because the amount of the claim
was less than $750. Tyler adds the first quarter
amount ($668.25) to the second quarter
amount ($607.50) and claims a refund of
$1,275.75 by filing Form 8849 and Schedule 1
(Form 8849). The claim must be filed by September 30, 2025, which is the last day of the
first quarter (July – September) following the
last quarter (April – June) included in the claim.
Tyler will have to include the $1,275.75 excise
tax refund as additional income on a Schedule C (Form 1040) for 2025 if he deducts the total cost of the fuel, including the tax.
Accrual method. If you use an accrual
method, include the amount of credit or refund
in gross income for the tax year in which you
used the fuels (or sold the fuels if you're a registered ultimate vendor). It doesn't matter whether
you filed for a quarterly refund or claimed the
entire amount as a credit.
Publication 510 (12-2025)

Example 1. Patty Green uses an accrual
method. Patty files a 2025 return in April 2026.
On Schedule C (Form 1040) Patty deducts the
total cost of gasoline (including $155 of excise
taxes) used for an off-highway business use
during 2025. On Form 4136, Patty claims $153

Publication 510 (12-2025)

as a credit. The $153 is reported as additional
income on the 2025 Schedule C (Form 1040).
Example 2. Use the same facts as in the
earlier Example 2, except that March Corporation uses an accrual method of accounting.

Chapter 2

Fuel Tax Credits and Refunds

Since the nontaxable use occurred in 2025, the
corporation reports the $3,082 of excise tax refunds and credits as income on its 2025 income
tax return. This consists of the $2,387 it claimed
on Form 8849 and the $695 it claimed on Form
4136.

23

Part Two.
Excise Taxes
Other Than Fuel
Taxes

3.
Environmental
Taxes
Environmental taxes are imposed on domestic
crude oil and imported petroleum products (petroleum tax), chemicals (other than ozone-depleting chemicals (ODCs)), imported chemical
substances, ODCs, and imported products containing or manufactured with ODCs. In addition,
a floor stocks tax is imposed on ODCs held on
January 1 by any person (other than the manufacturer or importer of the ODCs) for sale or for
use in further manufacture.
Figure the environmental tax on Form 6627. Enter the tax on the appropriate lines of Form 720
and attach Form 6627 to Form 720.
For environmental tax purposes, United States
includes the 50 states, the District of Columbia,
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory
of the United States, the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of
the Pacific Islands, the continental shelf areas
(applying the principles of section 638), and foreign trade zones. No one is exempt from the environmental taxes, including the federal government, state and local governments, Indian tribal
governments, and nonprofit educational organizations.

Tax on Petroleum
The petroleum tax is reported on Form 6627,
and Form 720 (IRS Nos. 16, 18, 21, and 53).
The tax rate is the sum of the Oil Spill Liability
Trust Fund financing rate (petroleum oil spill tax
rate) and the Hazardous Substance Superfund
financing rate (petroleum Superfund tax rate).
The petroleum oil spill tax rate is $0.09 per barrel. This rate does not apply after December 31,
2025, unless the tax gets extended. The petroleum Superfund tax rate is $0.18 per barrel, for
the 2026 calendar year, and will be adjusted annually for inflation. See Form 6627 for the rates.
Generally, the petroleum tax is imposed on
crude oil received at a U.S. refinery and on petroleum products entered into the United States
24

for consumption, use, or warehousing. The tax
also applies to certain uses of domestic crude
oil.
Crude oil includes crude oil condensates
and natural gasoline. Petroleum products include crude oil, refined and residual oil, and
other liquid hydrocarbon refinery products.
Crude oil. Tax is imposed on crude oil when
it’s received at a U.S. refinery. The operator of
the refinery is liable for the tax.
Tax is imposed on domestic crude oil that’s
used before it's received at a U.S. refinery. However, the use of crude oil for extracting oil or natural gas on the premises where such crude oil
was produced isn't taxable. The user is liable for
the tax.
Imported petroleum products. Tax is imposed on petroleum products when they enter
the United States for consumption, use, or
warehousing. The person entering the petroleum product into the country is liable for the
tax, including the tax on imported crude oil,
even if it's subsequently received at a U.S. refinery.
Tax is imposed only once on any imported
petroleum product. So, the operator of a U.S.
refinery that receives imported crude oil must
establish that they’re not liable for the tax by establishing that the petroleum tax has already
been imposed on the imported crude oil.

Tax on Chemicals (Other
Than ODCs) and on
Imported Chemical
Substances
The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act reinstates the section 4661 excise tax on chemicals (other than ODCs) (IRS No. 54) and the
section 4671 tax on imported chemical substances (IRS No. 17), effective July 1, 2022 (they
previously expired on December 31,1995). See
the Instructions for Form 6627.
Tax is imposed on the sale or use of taxable
chemicals by manufacturers, producers, and
importers of those chemicals. A taxable chemical is any substance listed in the table under
section 4661(b) and is manufactured or produced in the United States or entered into the
United States for consumption, use, or warehousing.

taxable substances. An imported taxable substance is defined by section 4672(a). See the
Table of Taxable Imported Chemical Substances in the Instructions for Form 6627.
Revenue
Procedure
2022-26,
I.R.B.
2022-29, at IRS.gov/irb/2022-29_IRB#REVPROC-2022-26, provides procedures for requesting a determination that a substance be
added or removed. Revenue Procedure
2023-20, I.R.B. 2023-15, at IRS.gov/irb/
2023-15_IRB#REV-PROC-2023-20, modifies
Revenue Procedure 2022-26 with respect to the
date on which a taxable substance is added to
the list of taxable substances for purposes of refund claims under section 4662(e).
For updates, such as the not yet shown tax
rates for taxable imported chemical substances,
or substances recently added or removed, go to
IRS.gov/Form6627. Also, see Superfund
chemical excise taxes on IRS.gov.

Ozone-Depleting
Chemicals (ODCs)
For a list of the taxable ODCs and tax rates, see
Instructions for the Form 6627.
Taxable event. Tax is imposed on an ODC
when it's first used or sold by its manufacturer
or importer. The manufacturer or importer is liable for the tax.
Use of ODCs. You use an ODC if you put it into
service in a trade or business or for the production of income. Also, an ODC is used if you use
it in the making of an article, including incorporation into the article, chemical transformation,
or release into the air. The loss, destruction,
packaging, repackaging, or warehousing of
ODCs isn't a use of the ODC.
The creation of a mixture containing an ODC
is treated as a taxable use of the ODC contained in the mixture. An ODC is contained in a
mixture only if the chemical identity of the ODC
isn't changed. Generally, tax is imposed when
the mixture is created and not on its sale or use.
However, you can choose to have the tax imposed on its sale or use by checking the appropriate box on Form 6627. You can revoke this
choice only with IRS consent.
The creation of a mixture for export or for
use as a feedstock isn't a taxable use of the
ODCs contained in the mixture.

Tax is imposed on the sale or use of imported taxable substances by importers of those
Chapter 3

Environmental Taxes

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Exceptions. The following may be exempt
from the tax on ODCs.
• Metered-dose inhalers.
• Recycled ODCs.
• Exported ODCs.
• ODCs used as feedstock.
Metered-dose inhalers. There is no tax on
ODCs used or sold for use as propellants in metered-dose inhalers. For a sale to be nontaxable, you must obtain from the purchaser an exemption certificate that you rely on in good faith.
The certificate must be in substantially the form
as the sample certificate set forth in Regulations
section 52.4682-2(d)(5). The certificate may be
included as part of the sales documentation.
Keep the certificate with your records.
Recycled ODCs. There is no tax on any
ODC diverted or recovered in the United States
as part of a recycling process (and not as part
of the original manufacturing or production
process). There is no tax on recycled
Halon-1301 or recycled Halon-2402 imported
from a country that has signed the Montreal
Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone
Layer (Montreal Protocol).
The Montreal Protocol is administered by
the United Nations (UN). To determine if a
country has signed the Montreal Protocol, see
the status of the Montreal Protocol at Treaties.UN.org.
Exported ODCs. Generally, there is no tax
on ODCs sold for export if certain requirements
are met. For a sale to be nontaxable, you and
the purchaser must be registered, see Form
637. Also, you must obtain from the purchaser
an exemption certificate that you rely on in good
faith. Keep the certificate with your records. The
certificate must be in substantially the same
form as the sample certificate set forth in Regulations section 52.4682-5(d)(3). The tax benefit
of this exemption is limited. For more information, see Regulations section 52.4682-5.
ODCs used as feedstock. There is no tax
on ODCs sold for use or used as a feedstock.
An ODC is used as a feedstock only if the ODC
is entirely consumed in the manufacture of another chemical. The transformation of an ODC
into one or more new compounds qualifies as
use as a feedstock, but use of an ODC in a mixture doesn't qualify.
For a sale to be nontaxable, you must obtain
from the purchaser an exemption certificate that
you rely on in good faith. The certificate must be
in substantially the same form as the sample
certificate set forth in Regulations section
52.4682-2(d)(2). Keep the certificate with your
records.
Credits or refunds. A credit or refund (without
interest) of tax paid on ODCs may be claimed if
a taxed ODC is:
• Used as a propellant in a metered-dose inhaler (the person who used the ODC as a
propellant may file a claim),
• Exported (the manufacturer may file a
claim), or
• Used as a feedstock (the person who used
the ODC may file a claim).
For information on how to file for credits or refunds, see the Instructions for Form 720, and
Schedule 6 (Form 8849).
Publication 510 (12-2025)

Conditions to allowance for ODCs exported.
To claim a credit or refund for ODCs that are exported, you must have repaid or agreed to repay
the tax to the exporter, or obtained the exporter's written consent to allowance of the credit
or refund. You must also have the evidence required by the EPA as proof that the ODCs were
exported.

Imported Taxable Products
(ODC Tax on Imported
Products)
An imported product containing or manufactured with ODCs is subject to tax if it's entered
into the United States for consumption, use, or
warehousing and is listed in the Imported Products Table. The Imported Products Table is listed in Regulations section 52.4682-3(f)(6).
The tax is based on the weight of the ODCs
used in the manufacture of the product. Use the
following methods to figure the ODC weight.
• The actual (exact) weight of each ODC
used as a material in manufacturing the
product.
• If the actual weight can't be determined,
the ODC weight listed for the product in the
Imported Products Table.
However, if you can't determine the actual
weight and the table doesn't list an ODC weight
for the product, the rate of tax is 1% of the entry
value of the product.
Taxable event. Tax is imposed on an imported
taxable product when the product is first sold or
used by its importer. The importer is liable for
the tax.
Use of imported products. You use an imported product if you put it into service in a trade or
business or for the production of income or use
it in the making of an article, including incorporation into the article. The loss, destruction,
packaging, repackaging, warehousing, or repair
of an imported product isn't a use of that product.
Importer election. The importer may choose
to treat the entry of a product into the United
States as the use of the product. Tax is imposed
on the date of entry instead of when the product
is sold or used. The choice applies to all imported taxable products that you own and haven’t
used when you make the choice and all later
entries. Make the choice by checking the box in
Form 6627, Part V, under Election. The choice
is effective as of the beginning of the calendar
quarter to which the Form 6627 applies. You
can revoke this choice only with IRS consent.
Sale of article incorporating imported product. The importer may treat the sale of an article manufactured or assembled in the United
States as the first sale or use of an imported
taxable product incorporated in that article if
both the following apply.
• The importer has consistently treated the
sale of similar items as the first sale or use
of similar taxable imported products.
• The importer hasn’t chosen to treat entry
into the United States as use of the product.
Chapter 3

Environmental Taxes

Imported products table. The table lists all
the products that are subject to the tax on imported taxable products and specifies the ODC
weight of each product. See Regulations
section 52.4682-3(f)(6) for the Imported Products Table.
Each listing in the table identifies a product
by name and includes only products that are
described by that name. Most listings identify a
product by both name and Harmonized Tariff
Schedule (HTS) heading. In those cases, a
product is included in that listing only if the
product is described by that name and the rate
of duty on the product is determined by reference to that HTS heading. A product is included
in the listing even if it's manufactured with or
contains a different ODC than the one specified
in the table.
Part II of the table lists electronic items that
aren’t included within any other list in the table.
An imported product is included in this list only
if the product meets one of the following tests.
1. It's an electronic component whose operation involves the use of nonmechanical
amplification or switching devices such as
tubes, transistors, and integrated circuits.
2. It contains components described in (1),
which account for more than 15% of the
cost of the product.
These components don’t include passive
electrical devices, such as resistors and capacitors. Items such as screws, nuts, bolts, plastic
parts, and similar specially fabricated parts that
may be used to construct an electronic item
aren’t themselves included in the listing for electronic items.
Rules for listing products. Products are
listed in the table according to the following
rules.
1. A product is listed in Part I of the table if it's
a mixture containing ODCs.
2. A product is listed in Part II of the table if
the Commissioner has determined that the
ODCs used as materials in the manufacture of the product under the predominant
method are used for purposes of refrigeration or air conditioning, creating an aerosol
or foam, or manufacturing electronic components.
3. A product is listed in Part III of the table if
the Commissioner has determined that the
product meets both the following tests.
a. It isn't an imported taxable product.
b. It would otherwise be included within
a list in Part II of the table.
For example, floppy disk drive units are listed in Part III because they aren’t imported taxable products and would have been included in
the Part II list for electronic items not specifically
identified, but for their listing in Part III.
ODC weight. The Table ODC weight of a
product is the weight, determined by the Commissioner, of the ODCs used as materials in the
manufacture of the product under the predominant method of manufacturing. The ODC weight
is listed in Part II in pounds per single unit of
product unless otherwise specified.
25

Modifying the table. A manufacturer or importer of a product may request that the IRS
add a product and its ODC weight to the table.
They also may request the IRS remove a product from the table, or change or specify the
ODC weight of a product. To request a modification, see Regulations section 52.4682-3(g)
for the mailing address and information that
must be included in the request.

4.

Communications
and Air
Floor Stocks Tax
Transportation
Tax is imposed on any ODC held (other than by
the manufacturer or importer of the ODC) on
Taxes
January 1 for sale or use in further manufactur-

ing. The person holding title (as determined under local law) to the ODC is liable for the tax,
whether or not delivery has been made.

These chemicals are taxable without regard
to the type or size of storage container in which
the ODCs are held. The tax may apply to an
ODC whether it's in a 14-ounce can or a
30-pound tank.
You’re liable for the floor stocks tax if you
hold any of the following on January 1.
1. At least 400 pounds of ODCs other than
halons or methyl chloroform.
2. At least 50 pounds of halons.
3. At least 1,000 pounds of methyl chloroform.
If you're liable for the tax, prepare an inventory on January 1 of the taxable ODCs held on
that date for sale or for use in further manufacturing. You must pay this floor stocks tax by
June 30 of each year. Report the tax on Form
6627 and Form 720, Part II, for the second calendar quarter.
For the tax rates, see the Instructions for
Form 6627.
ODCs not subject to floor stocks tax. The
floor stocks tax isn't imposed on any of the following ODCs.
1. ODCs mixed with other ingredients that
contribute to achieving the purpose for
which the mixture will be used, unless the
mixture contains only ODCs and one or
more stabilizers.
2. ODCs contained in a manufactured article
in which the ODCs will be used for their intended purpose without being released
from the article.

Excise taxes are imposed on amounts paid for
certain facilities and services. If you receive any
payment on which tax is imposed, you're required to collect the tax, file returns, and pay the
tax over to the government.
If you fail to collect and pay over the taxes, you
may be liable for the trust fund recovery penalty.
See chapter 15, later.

Uncollected Tax Report
A separate report is required to be filed by collecting agents of communications services and
air transportation taxes if the person from whom
the facilities or services tax (the tax) is required
to be collected (the taxpayer) refuses to pay the
tax, or it's impossible for the collecting agent to
collect the tax. The report must contain the
name and address of the taxpayer, the type of
facility provided or service rendered, the
amount paid for the facility or service (the
amount on which the tax is based), and the date
paid.
Regular method taxpayers. For regular
method taxpayers, the report must be filed by
the due date of the Form 720 on which the tax
would have been reported.
Alternative method taxpayers. For alternative method taxpayers, the report must be filed
by the due date of the Form 720 that includes
an adjustment to the separate account for the
uncollected tax. See Alternative method (IRS
Nos. 22, 26, 27, and 28) in
chapter 14.
Where to file. Don't file the uncollected tax report with Form 720. Instead, mail the report to:

3. ODCs that have been reclaimed or recycled.

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service
Cincinnati, OH 45999

4. ODCs sold in a qualifying sale for:
a. Use as a feedstock,
b. Export, or
c. Use as a propellant in a metered-dose
inhaler.

Communications Tax
A 3% tax is imposed on amounts paid for local
telephone service and teletypewriter exchange
service.
Local telephone service. This includes access to a local telephone system and the privilege of telephonic quality communication with
most people who are part of the system. Local

26

Chapter 4

telephone service also includes any facility or
services provided in connection with this service. The tax applies to lease payments for certain customer premises equipment (CPE) even
though the lessor doesn't also provide access
to a local telecommunications system.
Local-only service. Local-only service is
local telephone service as described above,
provided under a plan that doesn't include long
distance telephone service or that separately
states the charge for local service on the bill to
customers. Local-only service also includes any
facility or services provided in connection with
this service, even though these services and facilities may also be used with long-distance
service.
Private communication service. Private
communication service isn't local telephone
service. Private communication service includes accessory-type services provided in
connection with a Centrex, PBX, or other similar
system for dual use accessory equipment.
However, the charge for the service must be
stated separately from the charge for the basic
system, and the accessory must function, in
whole or in part, in connection with intercommunication among the subscriber's stations.
Teletypewriter exchange service. This includes access from a teletypewriter or other
data station to a teletypewriter exchange system and the privilege of intercommunication by
that station with most persons having teletypewriter or other data stations in the same exchange system.
Figuring the tax. The tax is based on the sum
of all charges for local telephone service included in the bill. However, if the bill groups individual items for billing and tax purposes, the tax is
based on the sum of the individual items within
that group. The tax on the remaining items not
included in any group is based on the charge for
each item separately. Don't include in the tax
base state or local sales or use taxes that are
separately stated on the taxpayer's bill.

Exemptions
Payments for certain services or payments from
certain users are exempt from the communications tax.
Nontaxable
service. Nontaxable
service
means bundled service and long distance service. Nontaxable service also includes pre-paid
telephone cards and pre-paid cellular service.
Bundled service. Bundled service is local
and long distance service provided under a
plan that doesn't separately state the charge for
the local telephone service. Bundled service includes plans that provide both local and long
distance service for either a flat monthly fee or a
charge that varies with the elapsed transmission time for which the service is used. Telecommunications companies provide bundled
service for both landlines and wireless (cellular)
service. If Voice over Internet Protocol service
provides both local and long distance service
and the charges aren’t separately stated, such
service is bundled service.

Communications and Air Transportation Taxes

Publication 510 (12-2025)

The method for sending or receiving a call,
such as on a landline telephone, wireless (cellular), or some other method, doesn't affect
whether a service is local-only or bundled.
Long distance service. Long distance
service is telephonic quality communication
with persons whose telephones are outside the
local telephone system of the caller.
Pre-paid telephone cards (PTC). A PTC
will be treated as bundled service unless a PTC
expressly states it's for local-only service. Generally, the person responsible for collecting the
tax is the carrier who transfers the PTC to the
transferee. The transferee is the first person that
isn't a carrier to whom a PTC is transferred by
the carrier. The transferee is the person liable
for the tax and is eligible to request a credit or
refund. For more information, see Regulations
section 49.4251-4.
The holder is the person that purchases a
PTC to use and not to resell. Holders aren’t liable for the tax and can't request a credit or refund.
Pre-paid cellular telephones. Rules similar to the PTC rules described above apply to
pre-paid cellular telephones. The transferee is
the person eligible to request the credit or refund.
Installation charges. The tax doesn't apply to
payments received for the installation of any instrument, wire, pole, switchboard, apparatus, or
equipment. However, the tax does apply to payments for the repair or replacement of those
items incidental to ordinary maintenance.
Answering services. The tax doesn't apply to
amounts paid for a private line, an answering
service, and a one-way paging or message
service if they don’t provide access to a local
telephone system and the privilege of telephonic communication as part of the local telephone system.
Mobile radio telephone service. The tax
doesn't apply to payments for a two-way radio
service that doesn't provide access to a local
telephone system.
Coin-operated telephones. The tax for local
telephone service doesn't apply to payments
made for services by inserting coins in public
coin-operated telephones. But the tax applies if
the coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a guaranteed amount. Figure the tax
on the amount paid under the guarantee plus
any fixed monthly or other periodic charge.
Telephone-operated security systems. The
tax doesn't apply to amounts paid for telephones used only to originate calls to a limited
number of telephone stations for security entry
into a building. In addition, the tax doesn't apply
to any amounts paid for rented communication
equipment used in the security system.
News services. The tax on teletypewriter exchange service doesn't apply to charges for the
following news services.
• Services dealing exclusively with the collection or dissemination of news for or

Publication 510 (12-2025)

through the public press or radio or television broadcasting.
• Services used exclusively in the collection
or dissemination of news by a news ticker
service furnishing a general news service
similar to that of the public press.
This exemption applies to payments received
for messages from one member of the news
media to another member (or to or from their
bona fide correspondents). For the exemption
to apply, the charge for these services must be
billed in writing to the person paying for the
service and that person must certify in writing
that the services are used for an exempt purpose.
Services not exempted. The tax applies
to amounts paid by members of the news media
for local telephone service.
International organizations and the American Red Cross. The tax doesn't apply to communication services furnished to an international organization or to the American National
Red Cross.
Nonprofit hospitals. The tax doesn't apply to
telephone services furnished to income tax-exempt nonprofit hospitals for their use. Also, the
tax doesn't apply to amounts paid by these hospitals to provide local telephone service in the
homes of their personnel who must be reached
during their off-duty hours.
Nonprofit educational organizations. The
tax doesn't apply to payments received for services and facilities furnished to a nonprofit educational organization for its use. A nonprofit educational organization is one that satisfies all
the following requirements.
• It normally maintains a regular faculty and
curriculum.
• It normally has a regularly enrolled body of
pupils or students in attendance at the
place where its educational activities are
regularly carried on.
• It's exempt from income tax under section
501(a).
This includes a school operated by an organization exempt under section 501(c)(3) if the
school meets the above qualifications.
Qualified blood collector organizations.
The tax doesn't apply to telephone services furnished to qualified blood collector organizations
for their use. A qualified blood collector organization is one that is:
• Described in section 501(c)(3) and exempt
from tax under section 501(a),
• Primarily engaged in the activity of collecting human blood,
• Registered with the IRS, and
• Registered by the Food and Drug Administration to collect blood.
Federal, state, and local government. The
tax doesn't apply to communication services
provided to the government of the United
States, the government of any state or its political subdivisions, the District of Columbia, or the
United Nations. Treat an Indian tribal government as a state for the exemption from the communications tax only if the services involve the

Chapter 4

exercise of an essential tribal government function.
Exemption certificate. Any form of exemption
certificate will be acceptable if it includes all the
information required by the Internal Revenue
Code and Regulations. See Regulations section
49.4253-11. File the certificate with the provider
of the communication services. An exemption
certificate isn't required for nontaxable services.
The following users that are exempt from the
communications tax don’t have to file an annual
exemption certificate after they have filed the initial certificate to claim an exemption from the
communications tax.
• The American National Red Cross and
other international organizations.
• Nonprofit hospitals.
• Nonprofit educational organizations.
• Qualified blood collector organizations.
• State and local governments.
The federal government doesn't have to file
any exemption certificate.
All other organizations must furnish exemption certificates when required.

Credits or Refunds
If tax is collected and paid over for nontaxable
services, or for certain services or users exempt
from the communications tax, the collector or
taxpayer may claim a credit or refund if it has repaid the tax to the person from whom the tax
was collected or obtained the consent of that
person to the allowance of the credit or refund.
Alternatively, the person who paid the tax may
claim a refund. For more information on how to
file for credits or refunds, see the Instructions for
Form 720, or Form 8849.
Collectors. The collector may request a credit
or refund if it has repaid the tax to the person
from whom the tax was collected, or obtained
the consent of that person to the allowance of
the credit or refund. These requirements also
apply to nontaxable service refunds.
Collectors using the regular method for
deposits. Collectors using the regular method
for deposits must use Form 720-X to request a
credit or refund if the collector has repaid the
tax to the person from whom the tax was collected, or obtained the consent of that person to
the allowance of the credit or refund.
Collectors using the alternative method
for deposits. Collectors using the alternative
method for deposits must adjust their separate
accounts for the credit or refund if it has repaid
the tax to the person from whom the tax was
collected, or obtained the consent of that person to the allowance of the credit or refund. For
more information, see the Instructions for Form
720.

Air Transportation Taxes
Taxes are imposed on amounts paid for:
• Transportation of persons by air,
• Use of international air travel facilities, and
• Transportation of property by air.

Communications and Air Transportation Taxes

27

Transportation of
Persons by Air
The tax on transportation of persons by air is
made up of the:
• Percentage tax, and
• Domestic-segment tax.
Percentage tax. A tax of 7.5% applies to
amounts paid for taxable transportation of persons by air. Amounts paid for transportation include charges for seat selection, premium
economy seating, online booking fee, layover or
waiting time, and movement of aircraft in deadhead service.
Mileage awards. The percentage tax may
apply to an amount paid (in cash or in kind) to
an air carrier (or any related person) for the right
to provide mileage awards for, or other reductions in the cost of, any transportation of persons by air. For example, this applies to mileage
awards purchased by credit card companies,
telephone companies, restaurants, hotels, and
other businesses.
Generally, the percentage tax doesn't apply
to amounts paid for mileage awards where the
mileage awards can't, under any circumstances, be redeemed for air transportation that is
subject to the tax. Until regulations are issued,
the following rules apply to mileage awards.
• Amounts paid for mileage awards that can't
be redeemed for taxable transportation beginning and ending in the United States
aren’t subject to the tax. For this rule, mileage awards issued by a foreign air carrier
are considered to be usable only on that
foreign air carrier and not redeemable for
taxable transportation beginning and ending in the United States. Therefore,
amounts paid to a foreign air carrier for
mileage awards aren’t subject to the tax.
• Amounts paid by an air carrier to a domestic air carrier for mileage awards that can
be redeemed for taxable transportation
aren’t subject to the tax to the extent those
miles will be awarded in connection with
the purchase of taxable transportation.
• Amounts paid by an air carrier to a domestic air carrier for mileage awards that can
be redeemed for taxable transportation are
subject to the tax to the extent those miles
won’t be awarded in connection with the
purchase of taxable transportation.
Domestic-segment tax. The domestic-segment tax is a flat dollar amount for each segment of taxable transportation for which an
amount is paid. However, see Rural airports,
later. A segment is a single takeoff and a single
landing.
Note. Generally, the tax on each domestic-segment of taxable air transportation increases annually based on adjustments for inflation.
See the Instructions for Form 720 for the tax
rate.
Charter flights. If an aircraft is chartered,
the domestic-segment tax for each segment of
taxable transportation is figured by multiplying
the tax by the number of passengers transported on the aircraft.

28

Rural airports. The domestic-segment tax
doesn't apply to a segment to or from a rural airport. An airport is a rural airport for a calendar
year if fewer than 100,000 commercial passengers departed from the airport by air during the
second preceding calendar year (the 100,000
passenger rule), and one of the following is true:
1. The airport isn't located within 75 miles of
another airport from which 100,000 or
more commercial passengers departed
during the second preceding calendar
year,
2. The airport was receiving essential air
service subsidies as of August 5, 1997, or
3. The airport isn't connected by paved roads
to another airport.
To apply the 100,000 passenger rule to any
airport described in (3) above, only count commercial passengers departing from the airport
by air on flight segments of at least 100 miles.
An updated list of rural airports can be found
on the Bureau of Transportation Statistics website at BTS.gov/Topics/Airlines-and-Airports/
Rural-Airports.
Taxable transportation. Taxable transportation is transportation by air that meets either of
the following tests.
• It begins and ends either in the United
States or at any place in Canada or Mexico
not more than 225 miles from the nearest
point on the continental U.S. boundary
(this is the 225-mile zone).
• It's directly or indirectly from one port or
station in the United States to another port
or station in the United States, but only if it
isn't a part of uninterrupted international air
transportation.
Round trip. A round trip is considered two
separate trips. The first trip is from the point of
departure to the destination. The second trip is
the return trip from that destination.
Uninterrupted international air transportation. This means transportation entirely by
air that doesn't begin and end in the United
States or in the 225-mile zone if there isn't more
than a 12-hour scheduled interval between arrival and departure at any station in the United
States. For a special rule that applies to military
personnel, see Exemptions, later.
Transportation between the continental
United States and Alaska or Hawaii. This
transportation is partially exempt from the tax on
transportation of persons by air. The tax doesn't
apply to the part of the trip between the point at
which the route of transportation leaves or enters the continental United States (or a port or
station in the 225-mile zone) and the point at
which it enters or leaves Hawaii or Alaska.
Leaving or entering occurs when the route of
the transportation passes over either the U.S.
border or a point 3 nautical miles (3.45 statute
miles) from low tide on the coastline, or when it
leaves a port or station in the 225-mile zone.
Therefore, this transportation is subject to the
percentage tax on the part of the trip in U.S. airspace, the domestic-segment tax for each domestic segment, and the tax on the use of international air travel facilities.

Chapter 4

Transportation within Alaska or Hawaii.
The tax on transportation of persons by air applies to the entire fare paid in the case of flights
between any of the Hawaiian Islands, and between any ports or stations in the Aleutian Islands or other ports or stations elsewhere in
Alaska. The tax applies even though parts of
the flights may be over international waters or
over Canada, if no point on the direct line of
transportation between the ports or stations is
more than 225 miles from the United States
(Hawaii or Alaska).
Package tours. The air transportation taxes
apply to “complimentary” air transportation furnished solely to participants in package holiday
tours. The amount paid for these package tours
includes a charge for air transportation even
though it may be advertised as “free.” This rule
also applies to the tax on the use of international air travel facilities.
Liability for tax. The person paying for taxable
transportation is liable for the tax and, ordinarily,
the person receiving the payment collects the
tax, files the returns, and pays the tax over to
the government. However, if payment is made
outside the United States for a prepaid order,
exchange order, or similar order, the person furnishing the initial transportation provided for under that order must collect the tax.
A travel agency that is an independent
broker and sells tours on aircraft that it charters
must collect the transportation tax, file the returns, and pay the tax over to the government.
However, a travel agency that sells tours as the
agent of an airline must collect the tax and remit
it to the airline for the filing of returns and for the
payment of the tax over to the government. An
independent third party that isn't under the airline's supervision or control, but is acting on behalf of, and receiving compensation from, a
passenger, isn't required to collect the tax and
pay it to the government. For more information
on resellers of air transportation, see Revenue
Ruling
2006-52
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2006-43_IRB#RR-2006-52.
The fact that the aircraft doesn't use public
or commercial airports in taking off and landing
has no effect on the tax. But see Certain helicopter uses, later.
For taxable transportation that begins and
ends in the United States, the tax applies regardless of whether the payment is made in or
outside the United States.
If the tax isn't paid when payment for the
transportation is made, the air carrier providing
the initial segment of the transportation that begins or ends in the United States becomes liable for the tax.
Exemptions. The tax on transportation of persons by air doesn't apply in the following situations. See Special Rules on Transportation
Taxes, later.
Military personnel on international trips.
When traveling in uniform at their own expense,
U.S. military personnel on authorized leave are
deemed to be traveling in uninterrupted international air transportation even if the scheduled interval between arrival and departure at any station in the United States is actually more than
12 hours. However, such personnel must buy

Communications and Air Transportation Taxes

Publication 510 (12-2025)

their tickets within 12 hours after landing at the
first domestic airport and accept the first available accommodation of the type called for by
their tickets. The trip must begin or end outside
the United States and the 225-mile zone.
Certain helicopter uses. The tax doesn't
apply to air transportation by helicopter if the
helicopter is used for any of the following purposes.
1. Transporting individuals, equipment, or
supplies in the exploration for, or the development or removal of, hard minerals,
oil, or gas.
2. Planting, cultivating, cutting, transporting,
or caring for trees (including logging operations).
3. Providing emergency medical transportation.
However, during a use described in items (1)
or (2), the tax applies if the helicopter takes off
from, or lands at, a facility eligible for assistance
under the Airport and Airway Development Act
of 1970, or otherwise uses services provided
under section 44509 or 44913(b) or subchapter
I of chapter 471 of title 49, United States Code.
For item (1), treat each flight segment as a separate flight.
Fixed-wing aircraft uses. The tax doesn't
apply to air transportation by fixed-wing aircraft
if the fixed-wing aircraft is used for any of the
following purposes.
1. Planting, cultivating, cutting, transporting,
or caring for trees (including logging operations).
2. Providing emergency medical transportation. The aircraft must be equipped for,
and exclusively dedicated on that flight to,
acute care emergency medical services.
3. Providing emergency medical transportation if the fixed-wing aircraft is equipped
for, and exclusively dedicated on that flight
to, acute care emergency medical services.
However, during a use described in item (1),
the tax applies if the fixed-wing aircraft takes off
from, or lands at, a facility eligible for assistance
under the Airport and Airway Development Act
of 1970, or otherwise uses services provided
under section 44509 or 44913(b) or subchapter
I of chapter 471 of title 49, United States Code.
Skydiving. The tax doesn't apply to any air
transportation exclusively for the purpose of
skydiving.
Seaplanes. The tax doesn't apply to any air
transportation by seaplane for any segment
consisting of a takeoff from, and a landing on,
water if the places where the takeoff and landing occur aren’t receiving financial assistance
from the Airport and Airways Trust Fund.
Bonus tickets. The tax doesn't apply to
free bonus tickets issued by an airline company
to its customers who have satisfied all requirements to qualify for the bonus tickets. However,
the tax applies to amounts paid by customers
for advance bonus tickets when customers
have traveled insufficient mileage to fully qualify
for the free advance bonus tickets.
Publication 510 (12-2025)

International
Air Travel Facilities

Skydiving. The tax doesn't apply to any air
transportation exclusively for the purpose of
skydiving.

A tax per person is imposed (whether in or outside the United States) for international flights
that begin or end in the United States. However,
for a domestic segment that begins or ends in
Alaska or Hawaii, a reduced tax per person applies only to departures. This tax doesn't apply
if all the transportation is subject to the percentage tax. It also doesn't apply if the surtax on fuel
used in a fractional ownership program aircraft
is imposed. See the Instructions for Form 720
for the tax rates.

Excess baggage. The tax doesn't apply to
excess baggage accompanying a passenger on
an aircraft operated on an established line.

Note. Generally, both the tax on the use of
international air travel facilities for any international air transportation, if the transportation begins or ends in the United States, and the tax
per person for domestic segments that begins
or ends in Alaska or Hawaii (applies to departures only), are increased annually based on inflation adjustments. See the Instructions for
Form 720 for the tax rate.

Transportation of
Property by Air
A tax of 6.25% is imposed on amounts paid
(whether in or outside the United States) for
transportation of property by air. The fact that
the aircraft may not use public or commercial
airports in taking off and landing has no effect
on the tax. The tax applies only to amounts paid
to a person engaged in the business of transporting property by air for hire.
The tax applies only to transportation (including layover time and movement of aircraft in
deadhead service) that begins and ends in the
United States. Thus, the tax doesn't apply to
transportation of property by air that begins or
ends outside the United States.
Exemptions. The tax on transportation of
property by air doesn't apply in the following situations. See Special Rules on Transportation
Taxes, later.
Cropdusting and firefighting service.
The tax doesn't apply to amounts paid for cropdusting or aerial firefighting service.
Exportation. The tax doesn't apply to payments for transportation of property by air in the
course of exportation (including to U.S. territories) by continuous movement, as evidenced by
the execution of Form 1363, Export Exemption
Certificate. See Form 1363 for more information.
Certain helicopter and fixed-wing air ambulance uses. The tax doesn't apply to
amounts paid for the use of helicopters in construction to set heating and air conditioning
units on roofs of buildings, to dismantle tower
cranes, and to aid in construction of power lines
and ski lifts.
The tax also doesn't apply to air transportation by helicopter or fixed-wing aircraft for the
purpose of providing emergency medical services. The fixed-wing aircraft must be equipped
for, and exclusively dedicated on that flight to,
acute care emergency medical services.

Chapter 4

Surtax on fuel used in a fractional ownership program aircraft. The tax doesn't apply if the surtax on fuel used in a fractional ownership program aircraft is imposed.
Alaska and Hawaii. For transportation of
property to and from Alaska and Hawaii, the tax
in general doesn't apply to the portion of the
transportation that is entirely outside the continental United States (or the 225-mile zone if the
aircraft departs from or arrives at an airport in
the 225-mile zone). But the tax applies to flights
between ports or stations in Alaska and the
Aleutian Islands, as well as between ports or
stations in Hawaii. The tax applies even though
parts of the flights may be over international waters or over Canada, if no point on a line drawn
from where the route of transportation leaves
the United States (Alaska) to where it reenters
the United States (Alaska) is more than 225
miles from the United States.
Seaplanes. The tax doesn't apply to any air
transportation by seaplane for any segment
consisting of a take off from, and a landing on,
water if the places where the take off and landing occur aren’t receiving financial assistance
from the Airport and Airways Trust Fund.
Liability for tax. The person paying for taxable
transportation is liable for the tax and, ordinarily,
the person engaged in the business of transporting property by air for hire receives the payment, collects the tax, files the returns, and
pays the tax over to the government.
If tax isn't paid when a payment is made outside the United States, the person furnishing
the last segment of taxable transportation collects the tax from the person to whom the property is delivered in the United States.

Special Rules on
Transportation Taxes
Aircraft used by affiliated corporations. The
taxes don’t apply to payments received by one
member of an affiliated group of corporations
from another member for services furnished in
connection with the use of an aircraft. However,
the aircraft must be owned or leased by a member of the affiliated group and can't be available
for hire by a nonmember of the affiliated group.
Determine whether an aircraft is available for
hire by a nonmember of an affiliated group on a
flight-by-flight basis.
For this rule, an affiliated group of corporations is any group of corporations connected
with a common parent corporation through 80%
or more of stock ownership.
Small aircraft. The taxes don’t apply to transportation furnished by an aircraft having a maximum certificated takeoff weight of 6,000
pounds or less. However, the taxes do apply if
the aircraft is operated on an established line.
Operated on an established line means the aircraft operates with some degree of regularity

Communications and Air Transportation Taxes

29

between definite points. However, it doesn't include any time an aircraft is being operated on a
flight that is solely for sightseeing.
Consider an aircraft to be operated on an
established line if it's operated on a charter basis between two cities also served by that carrier on a regularly scheduled basis.
Also, the taxes apply if the aircraft is jet-powered, regardless of its maximum certificated
takeoff weight or whether or not it's operated on
an established line.
Mixed load of persons and property. If a single amount is paid for air transportation of persons and property, the payment must be allocated between the amount subject to the tax on
transportation of persons and the amount subject to the tax on transportation of property. The
allocation must be reasonable and supported
by adequate records.
Credits or refunds. If tax is collected and paid
over for air transportation that isn't taxable air
transportation, the collector may claim a credit
or refund if it has repaid the tax to the person
from whom the tax was collected or obtained
the consent of that person to the allowance of
the credit or refund. Alternatively, the person
who paid the tax may claim a refund. For information on how to file for credits or refunds, see
the Instructions for Forms 720 or 8849.

Aircraft Management
Services
Amounts paid by an aircraft owner for certain
aircraft management services are exempt from
the section 4261 and 4271 excise taxes imposed on transportation by air. An aircraft owner
includes a person that owns an aircraft and a
person that leases an aircraft for 31 days or
more. A person owns an aircraft if the person
holds legal title to the aircraft, or if the person
holds substantial incidents of ownership in the
aircraft for a period of more than 31 days. A lessee of an aircraft includes the beneficiary of an
owner trust that holds legal title to the aircraft.
If an aircraft owner pays an amount to an aircraft management services provider for flights
on the aircraft owner's aircraft, the amount paid
isn't subject to the section 4261 or 4271 excise
tax, even if the aircraft owner isn’t on the flight.
However, tax may apply if an aircraft owner
pays an amount to an aircraft management
services provider for flights on a substitute aircraft. An allocation is required if an aircraft
owner pays an amount to an aircraft management services provider that includes an amount
attributable to flights on the aircraft owner's aircraft and an amount attributable to flights on a
substitute aircraft.
The aircraft management services exemption doesn’t apply to amounts paid by an aircraft
owner for aircraft management services related
to (i) an aircraft that the aircraft owner has
leased for a period of less than 31 days, (ii) a
fractionally owned aircraft, or (iii) an aircraft
used for scheduled passenger service for which
tickets are sold on a seat-by-seat basis to the
general public.

30

5.
Manufacturers
Taxes
The following discussion of manufacturers taxes
applies to the tax on:
• Sport fishing equipment;
• Fishing rods and fishing poles;
• Electric outboard motors;
• Fishing tackle boxes;
• Bows, quivers, broadheads, and points;
• Arrow shafts;
• Coal;
• Taxable tires;
• Gas guzzler automobiles; and
• Vaccines.
Manufacturer. The term “manufacturer” includes a producer or importer. A manufacturer
is any person who produces a taxable article
from new or raw material, or from scrap, salvage, or junk material, by processing or changing the form of an article or by combining or assembling two or more articles. If you furnish the
materials and keep title to those materials and
to the finished article, you're considered the
manufacturer even though another person actually manufactures the taxable article.
A manufacturer who sells a taxable article in
knockdown (unassembled) condition is liable
for the tax. The person who buys these component parts and assembles a taxable article may
also be liable for tax as a further manufacturer
depending on the labor, material, and overhead
required to assemble the completed article if
the article is assembled for business use.
Importer. An importer is a person who
brings a taxable article into the United States, or
withdraws a taxable article from a customs bonded warehouse for sale or use in the United
States.
Sale. A sale is the transfer of the title to, or the
substantial incidents of ownership in, an article
to a buyer for consideration that may consist of
money, services, or other things.
Use considered sale. A manufacturer who
uses a taxable article is liable for the tax in the
same manner as if it were sold.
Lease considered sale. The lease of an
article (including any renewal or extension of
the lease) by the manufacturer is generally considered a taxable sale. However, for the gas
guzzler tax, only the first lease (excluding any
renewal or extension) of the automobile by the
manufacturer is considered a sale.
Manufacturers taxes based on sale price.
The manufacturers taxes imposed on the sale
of sport fishing equipment, electric outboard
motors, and bows are based on the sale price of
the article. The taxes imposed on coal are
based either on the sale price or the weight.

Chapter 5

Manufacturers Taxes

The price for which an article is sold includes the total consideration paid for the article, whether that consideration is in the form of
money, services, or other things. However, you
include certain charges made when a taxable
article is sold and you exclude others. To figure
the price on which you base the tax, use the following rules.
1. Include both the following charges in the
price.
a. Any charge for coverings or containers (regardless of their nature).
b. Any charge incident to placing the article in a condition packed ready for
shipment.
2. Exclude all the following amounts from
the price.
a. The manufacturers excise tax,
whether or not it's stated as a separate charge.
b. The transportation charges pursuant
to the sale. The cost of transportation
of goods to a warehouse before their
bona fide sale isn't excludable.
c. Delivery, insurance, installation, retail
dealer preparation charges, and other
charges you incur in placing the article in the hands of the purchaser under a bona fide sale.
d. Discounts, rebates, and similar allowances actually granted to the purchaser.
e. Local advertising charges. A charge
made separately when the article is
sold and that qualifies as a charge for
“local advertising” may, within certain
limits, be excluded from the sale price.
f. Charges for warranty paid at the purchaser's option. However, a charge for
a warranty of an article that the manufacturer requires the purchaser to pay
to obtain the article is included in the
sale price on which the tax is figured.
Bonus goods. Allocate the sale price if you
give free nontaxable goods with the purchase of
taxable merchandise. Figure the tax only on the
sale price attributable to the taxable articles.
Example. A manufacturer sells a quantity of
taxable articles and gives the purchaser certain
nontaxable articles as a bonus. The sale price
of the shipment is $1,500. The normal sale
price is $2,000: $1,500 for the taxable articles
and $500 for the nontaxable articles. Since the
taxable items represent 75% of the normal sale
price, the tax is based on 75% of the actual sale
price, or $1,125 (75% of $1,500). The remaining
$375 is allocated to the nontaxable articles.

Taxable Event
Tax attaches when the title to the article sold
passes from the manufacturer to the buyer.
When the title passes depends on the intention
of the parties as gathered from the contract of
sale. In the absence of expressed intention, the

Publication 510 (12-2025)

legal rules of presumption followed in the jurisdiction where the sale occurs determine when
title passes.
If the taxable article is used by the manufacturer, the tax attaches at the time use begins.
The manufacturer is liable for the tax.
Partial payments. The tax applies to each partial payment received when taxable articles are:
• Leased,
• Sold conditionally,
• Sold on installment with chattel mortgage,
or
• Sold on installment with title to pass in the
future.
To figure the tax, multiply the partial payment by
the tax rate in effect at the time of the payment.

Exemptions
The following sales by the manufacturer are exempt from the manufacturers tax.
• Sale of an article to a state or local government for the exclusive use of the state or
local government. This exemption doesn't
apply to the taxes on coal, gas guzzlers,
and vaccines. “State” is defined in Definitions in chapter 1.
• Sale of an article to a nonprofit educational
organization for its exclusive use. This exemption doesn't apply to the taxes on coal,
gas guzzlers, and vaccines. “Nonprofit educational organization” is defined under
Communications Tax in chapter 4.
• Sale of an article to a qualified blood collector organization. This exemption doesn't
apply to gas guzzlers, recreational equipment, and vaccines. “Qualified blood collector organizations” are defined under
Communications Tax in chapter 4.
• Sale of an article for use by the purchaser
as supplies for vessels. This exemption
doesn't apply to the taxes on coal and vaccines. Supplies for vessels means ships'
stores, sea stores, or legitimate equipment
on vessels of war of the United States or
any foreign nation, vessels employed in the
fisheries or whaling business, or vessels
actually engaged in foreign trade.
• Sale of an article for use by the purchaser
for further manufacture, or for resale by the
purchaser to a second purchaser for use
by the second purchaser for further manufacture. This exemption doesn't apply to
the tax on coal and tires. Use for further
manufacture means use in the manufacture or production of an article subject to
the manufacturers excise taxes. If you buy
articles tax free and resell or use them
other than in the manufacture of another
article, you're liable for the tax on their resale or use just as if you had manufactured
and sold them.
• Sale of an article for export or for resale by
the purchaser to a second purchaser for
export. The article may be exported to a
foreign country or to a territory of the United States. A vaccine shipped to a territory
of the United States isn't considered to be
exported. If an article is sold tax free for export and the manufacturer doesn't receive
Publication 510 (12-2025)

proof of export, the manufacturer is liable
for the tax.
• Sales of articles of native Indian handicraft,
such as bows and arrow shafts, manufactured by Indians on reservations, in Indian
schools, or under U.S. jurisdiction in
Alaska.
• For tire exemptions, see section 4221(e)
(2).

Requirements for Exempt
Sales
The following requirements must be met for a
sale to be exempt from the manufacturers tax.
Registration requirements. The manufacturer, first purchaser, and second purchaser in
the case of resales must be registered. See the
Form 637 instructions for more information.
Exceptions to registration requirements.
Registration isn't required for:
• State or local governments,
• Foreign purchasers of articles sold or resold for export,
• The U.S. Government, or
• Parties to a sale of supplies for vessels and
aircraft.
Certification requirement. If the purchaser is
required to be registered, the purchaser must
give the manufacturer its registration number
and certify the exempt purpose for which the article will be used. The information must be in
writing and may be noted on the purchase order
or other document furnished by the purchaser
to the seller in connection with the sale.
For a sale to a state or local government, an
exemption certificate must be signed by an officer or employee authorized by the state or local
government.
See
Regulations
section
48.4221-5(c) for the certificate requirements.
For sales for use as supplies for vessels and
aircraft, if the manufacturer and purchaser
aren’t registered, the owner or agent of the vessel must provide an exemption certificate to the
manufacturer before or at the time of sale. See
Regulations section 48.4221-4(d) for the certificate requirements.
Proof of export requirement. Within 6
months of the date of sale or shipment by the
manufacturer, whichever is earlier, the manufacturer must receive proof of exportation. See
Regulations section 48.4221-3(d) for evidence
that qualifies as proof of exportation.
Proof of resale for further manufacture requirement. Within 6 months of the date of sale
or shipment by the manufacturer, whichever is
earlier, the manufacturer must receive proof that
the article has been resold for use in further
manufacture.
See
Regulations
section
48.4221-2(c) for evidence that qualifies as proof
of resale.
Information to be furnished to purchaser.
The manufacturer must indicate to the purchaser that the articles normally would be subject to tax and are being sold tax free for an exempt purpose because the purchaser has
provided the required certificate.
Chapter 5

Manufacturers Taxes

Credits or Refunds
The manufacturer may be eligible to obtain a
credit or refund of the manufacturers tax for certain uses, sales, exports, and price readjustments. The claim must set forth in detail the
facts upon which the claim is based.
Uses, sales, and exports. A credit or refund
(without interest) of the manufacturers taxes
may be allowable if a tax-paid article is, by any
person:
• Exported;
• Used or sold for use as supplies for vessels (except for coal and vaccines);
• Sold to a state or local government for its
exclusive use (except for coal, gas guzzlers, and vaccines);
• Sold to a nonprofit educational organization for its exclusive use (except for coal,
gas guzzlers, and vaccines);
• Sold to a qualified blood collector organization for its exclusive use (except for gas
guzzlers, recreational equipment, and vaccines); or
• Used for further manufacture of another article subject to the manufacturers taxes
(except for coal).
Export. If a tax-paid article is exported, the exporter or shipper may claim a credit or refund if
the manufacturer waives its right to claim the
credit or refund. In the case of a tax-paid article
used to make another taxable article, the subsequent manufacturer may claim the credit or
refund.
Price readjustments. In addition, a credit or
refund (without interest) may be allowable for a
tax-paid article for which the price is readjusted
by reason of return or repossession of the article or a bona fide discount, rebate, or allowance
for taxes based on price.
Conditions to allowance. To claim a credit or
refund in the case of export; supplies for vessels; or sales to a state or local government,
nonprofit educational organization, or qualified
blood collector organization, the person who
paid the tax must certify on the claim that one of
the following applies and that the claimant has
the required supporting information.
• The claimant sold the article at a tax-excluded price.
• The person has repaid, or agreed to repay,
the tax to the ultimate vendor of the article.
• The person has obtained the written consent of the ultimate vendor to make the
claim.
The ultimate vendor is generally the seller making the sale that gives rise to the overpayment
of tax.
Claim for further manufacture. To claim a
credit or refund for further manufacture, the
claimant must include a statement that contains
the following.
• The name and address of the manufacturer and the date of payment.
• An identification of the article for which the
credit or refund is claimed.
• The amount of tax paid on the article and
the date on which it was paid.
31

• Information indicating that the article was

used as material in the manufacture or production of, or as a component part of, a
second article manufactured or produced
by the manufacturer, or was sold on or in
connection with, or with the sale of, a second article manufactured or produced by
the manufacturer.
• An identification of the second article.
For claims by the exporter or shipper, the
claim must contain the proof of export and a
statement signed by the person that paid the
tax waiving the right to claim a credit or refund.
The statement must include the amount of tax
paid, the date of payment, and the office to
which it was paid.
Claim for price readjustment. To claim a
credit or refund for a price readjustment, the
person who paid the tax must include with the
claim a statement that contains the following.
• A description of the circumstances that
gave rise to the price readjustment.
• An identification of the article whose price
was readjusted.
• The price at which the article was sold.
• The amount of tax paid on the article and
the date on which it was paid.
• The name and address of the purchaser.
• The amount repaid to the purchaser or
credited to the purchaser's account.

Sport Fishing Equipment
A tax of 10% of the sale price is imposed on
many articles of sport fishing equipment sold by
the manufacturer. This includes any parts or accessories sold on or in connection with the sale
of those articles.
Pay this tax with Form 720. No tax deposits
are required.
Sport fishing equipment includes all the following items.
1. Fishing rods and poles (and component
parts), fishing reels, fly fishing lines, other
fishing lines not over the 130 pounds test,
fishing spears, spear guns, and spear tips.
2. Items of terminal tackle, including leaders,
artificial lures, artificial baits, artificial flies,
fishing hooks, bobbers, sinkers, snaps,
drayles, and swivels (but not including natural bait or any item of terminal tackle designed for use and ordinarily used on fishing lines not described in (1)).
3. The following items of fishing supplies and
accessories: fish stringers, creels, bags,
baskets, and other containers designed to
hold fish, portable bait containers, fishing
vests, landing nets, gaff hooks, fishing
hook disgorgers, and dressing for fishing
lines and artificial flies.
4. Fishing tip-ups and tilts.
5. Fishing rod belts, fishing rodholders, fishing harnesses, fish fighting chairs, fishing
outriggers, and fishing downriggers.
See Revenue Ruling 88-52 in Cumulative Bulletin 1988-1 for a more complete description of
the items of taxable equipment.
32

Fishing rods and fishing poles. The tax on
fishing rods and fishing poles (and component
parts) is 10% of the sales price not to exceed
$10 per article. The tax is paid by the manufacturer, producer, or importer.
Fishing tackle boxes. The tax on fishing
tackle boxes is 3% of the sales price. The tax is
paid by the manufacturer, producer, or importer.
Electric outboard boat motors. A tax of 3%
of the sale price is imposed on the sale by the
manufacturer of electric outboard motors. This
includes any parts or accessories sold on or in
connection with the sale of those articles.
Certain equipment resale. The tax on the
sale of sport fishing equipment is imposed a
second time under the following circumstances.
If the manufacturer sells a taxable article to any
person, the manufacturer is liable for the tax. If
the purchaser or any other person then sells it
to a person who is related (discussed next) to
the manufacturer, that related person is liable
for a second tax on any subsequent sale of the
article. The second tax, however, isn't imposed
if the constructive sale price rules under section
4216(b) apply to the sale by the manufacturer.
If the second tax is imposed, a credit for tax
previously paid by the manufacturer is available
provided the related person can document the
tax paid. The documentation requirement is
generally satisfied only through submission of
copies of actual records of the person that previously paid the tax.
Related person. For the tax on sport fishing equipment, a person is a related person of
the manufacturer if that person and the manufacturer have a relationship described in section
465(b)(3)(C).

Bows, Quivers,
Broadheads, and Points
The tax on bows is 11% of the sales price. The
tax is paid by the manufacturer, producer, or importer. It applies to bows having a peak draw
weight of 30 pounds or more. The tax is also imposed on the sale of any part or accessory suitable for inclusion in or attachment to a taxable
bow and any quiver, broadhead, or point suitable for use with arrows described below.
Pay this tax with Form 720. No tax deposits
are required.

Arrow Shafts
Generally, the section 4161 tax on arrow shafts
increases annually based on inflation adjustments. See Form 720 for the tax rate. The tax is
paid by the manufacturer, producer, or importer
of any arrow shaft (whether sold separately or
incorporated as part of a finished or unfinished
product) of a type used in the manufacture of
any arrow that after its assembly meets either of
the following conditions.
• It measures 18 inches or more in overall
length.

Chapter 5

Manufacturers Taxes

• It measures less than 18 inches in overall

length but is suitable for use with a taxable
bow.

Exemption for certain wooden arrows.
The tax doesn't apply to any shaft made of all
natural wood with no laminations or artificial
means of enhancing the spine of such shaft
(whether sold separately or incorporated as part
of a finished or unfinished product) and used in
the manufacture of any arrow that after its assembly meets both of the following conditions.
• It measures 5/16 of an inch or less in diameter.
• It isn't suitable for use with a taxable bow.
Pay this tax with Form 720. No tax deposits
are required.

Coal
Section 4121 imposes a tax on the first sale of
coal mined in the United States. The producer
of the coal is liable for the tax. The producer is
the person who has vested ownership of the
coal under state law immediately after the coal
is severed from the ground. Determine vested
ownership without regard to any contractual arrangement for the sale or other disposition of
the coal or the payment of any royalties between the producer and third parties. A producer includes any person who extracts coal
from coal waste refuse piles (or from the silt
waste product that results from the wet washing
of coal).
The tax isn't imposed on coal extracted from
a riverbed by dredging if it can be shown that
the coal has been taxed previously.
Tax rates. The tax on underground-mined coal
is the lower of:
• $1.10 a ton, or
• 4.4% of the sale price.
of:

The tax on surface-mined coal is the lower

• $0.55 a ton, or
• 4.4% of the sale price.

Coal will be taxed at the 4.4% rate if the selling price is less than $25 a ton for underground-mined coal and less than $12.50 a ton
for surface-mined coal. Apply the tax proportionately if a sale or use includes a portion of a
ton.
Example. If you sell 21,000 pounds (10.5
tons) of coal from an underground mine for
$525, the price per ton is $50. The tax is $1.10
× 10.5 tons ($11.55).
Coal production. Coal is produced from surface mines if all geological matter (trees, earth,
rock) above the coal is removed before the coal
is mined. Treat coal removed by auger and coal
reclaimed from coal waste refuse piles as produced from a surface mine.
Treat coal as produced from an underground
mine when the coal isn't produced from a surface mine. In some cases, a single mine may
yield coal from both surface mining and underground mining. Determine if the coal is from a
surface mine or an underground mine for each
ton of coal produced and not on a mine-by-mine
basis.
Publication 510 (12-2025)

Determining tonnage or selling price. The
producer pays the tax on coal at the time of sale
or use. In figuring the selling price for applying
the tax, the point of sale is f.o.b. (free on board)
mine or f.o.b. cleaning plant if you clean the coal
before selling it. This applies even if you sell the
coal for a delivered price. The f.o.b. mine or
f.o.b. cleaning plant is the point at which you figure the number of tons sold for applying the applicable tonnage rate, and the point at which
you figure the sale price for applying the 4.4%
rate.
The tax applies to the full amount of coal
sold. However, the IRS allows a calculated reduction of the taxable weight of the coal for the
weight of the moisture in excess of the coal's inherent moisture content. Include in the sale
price any additional charge for a freeze-conditioning additive in figuring the tax.
Don't include in the sales price the excise
tax imposed on coal.
Coal used by the producer. The tax on coal
applies if the coal is used by the producer in
other than a mining process. A mining process
means the same for this purpose as for percentage depletion. For example, the tax doesn't apply if, before selling the coal, you break it, clean
it, size it, or apply any other process considered
mining under the rules for depletion. In this
case, the tax applies only when you sell the
coal. The tax doesn't apply to coal used as fuel
in the coal drying process since it's considered
to be used in a mining process. However, the
tax does apply when you use the coal as fuel or
as an ingredient in making coke since the coal
isn't used in a mining process.
You must use a constructive sale price to figure the tax under the 4.4% rate if you use the
coal in other than a mining process. Base your
constructive sale price on sales of a like kind
and grade of coal by you or other producers
made f.o.b. mine or cleaning plant. Normally,
you use the same constructive price used to figure your percentage depletion deduction.
Blending. If you blend surface-mined coal with
underground-mined coal during the cleaning
process, you must figure the excise tax on the
sale of the blended, cleaned coal. Figure the tax
separately for each type of coal in the blend.
Base the tax on the amount of each type in the
blend if you can determine the proportion of
each type of coal contained in the final blend.
Base the tax on the ratio of each type originally
put into the cleaning process if you can't determine the proportion of each type of coal in the
blend. However, the tax is limited to 4.4% of the
sale price per ton of the blended coal.
Exemption from tax. The tax doesn't apply to
sales of lignite and imported coal. The only
other exemption from the tax on the sale of coal
is for coal exported as discussed next.
Exported. The tax doesn't apply to the sale
of coal if the coal is in the stream of export when
sold by the producer and the coal is actually exported.
Coal is in the stream of export when sold by
the producer if the sale is a step in the exportation of the coal to its ultimate destination in a
foreign country. For example, coal is in the
stream of export when:
Publication 510 (12-2025)

1. The coal is loaded on an export vessel
and title is transferred from the producer to
a foreign purchaser, or
2. The producer sells the coal to an export
broker in the United States under terms of
a contract showing that the coal is to be
shipped to a foreign country.
Proof of export includes any of the following
items.
• A copy of the export bill of lading issued by
the delivering carrier.
• A certificate signed by the export carrier's
agent or representative showing actual exportation of the coal.
• A certificate of landing signed by a customs officer of the foreign country to which
the coal is exported.
• If the foreign country doesn't have a customs administrator, a statement of the foreign consignee showing receipt of the
coal.

Taxable Tires
Caution: axable tires are divided into three
categories for reporting and figuring the tax as
described below.
A tax is imposed on taxable tires sold by the
manufacturer, producer, or importer at the rate
of $0.0945 ($0.04725 in the case of a biasply
tire or super single tire) for each 10 pounds of
the maximum rated load capacity over 3,500
pounds. The three categories for reporting the
tax and the tax rate are listed below.
• Taxable tires other than biasply or super
single tires at $0.0945.
• Taxable tires, biasply or super single tires
(other than super single tires designed for
steering) at $0.04725.
• Taxable tires, super single tires designed
for steering at $0.0945.
A taxable tire is any tire of the type used on
highway vehicles if wholly or partially made of
rubber and if marked according to federal regulations for highway use. A biasply tire is a pneumatic tire on which the ply cords that extend to
the beads are laid at alternate angles substantially less than 90 degrees to the centerline of
the tread. A super single tire is a tire greater
than 13 inches in cross section width designed
to replace 2 tires in a dual fitment.
Special rule, manufacturer's retail stores.
The excise tax on taxable tires is imposed at the
time the taxable tires are delivered to the manufacturer-owned retail stores, not at the time of
sale.
Tires on imported articles. The importer of
an article equipped with taxable tires is treated
as the manufacturer of the tires and is liable for
the taxable tire excise tax when the article is
sold (except in the case of an automobile bus
chassis or body with tires).
Tires exempt from tax. The tax on taxable
tires doesn't apply to the following items.
• Domestically recapped or retreaded tires if
the tires have been sold previously in the

Chapter 5

Manufacturers Taxes

•
•

•
•

United States and were taxable tires at the
time of sale.
Tire carcasses not suitable for commercial
use.
Tires for use on qualifying intercity, local,
and school buses. For tax-free treatment,
the registration requirements discussed
earlier under Requirements for Exempt
Sales, apply.
Tires sold for the exclusive use of the Department of Defense or the Coast Guard.
Tires of a type used exclusively on mobile
machinery. A taxable tire used on mobile
machinery isn't exempt from tax.

Qualifying intercity or local bus. This is
any bus used mainly (more than 50%) to transport the general public for a fee and that either
operates on a schedule along regular routes or
seats at least 20 adults (excluding the driver).
Qualifying school bus. This is any bus
substantially all the use (85% or more) of which
is to transport students and employees of
schools.
Credit or refund. A credit or refund (without interest) is allowable on tax-paid tires if the tires
have been:
• Exported;
• Sold to a state or local government for its
exclusive use;
• Sold to a nonprofit educational organization for its exclusive use;
• Sold to a qualified blood collector organization for its exclusive use in connection
with a vehicle the organization certifies will
be primarily used in the collection, storage,
or transportation of blood;
• Used or sold for use as supplies for vessels; or
• Sold in connection with qualified intercity,
local, or school buses.
Also, a credit or refund (without interest) is
allowable on tax-paid tires sold by any person
on, or in connection with, any other article that
is sold or used in an activity listed above.
The person who paid the tax is eligible to
make the claim.

Gas Guzzler Tax
Tax is imposed on the sale by the manufacturer
of automobiles of a model type that has a fuel
economy standard as measured by the EPA of
less than 22.5 miles per gallon. If you import an
automobile for personal use, you may be liable
for this tax. Figure the tax on Form 6197, as discussed later. The tax rate is based on fuel economy rating. The tax rates for the gas guzzler tax
are shown on Form 6197.
A person that lengthens an existing automobile is the manufacturer of an automobile.
Automobiles. An automobile (including limousines) means any four-wheeled vehicle that is:
• Rated at an unloaded gross vehicle weight
of 6,000 pounds or less,
• Propelled by an engine powered by gasoline or diesel fuel, and
• Intended for use mainly on public streets,
roads, and highways.
33

Vehicles not subject to tax. For the gas
guzzler tax, the following vehicles aren’t considered automobiles.
1. Limousines with a gross unloaded vehicle
weight of more than 6,000 pounds.
2. Vehicles operated exclusively on a rail or
rails.
3. Vehicles sold for use and used primarily:
a. As ambulances or combination ambulance-hearses;
b. For police or other law enforcement
purposes by federal, state, or local
governments; or
c. For firefighting purposes.
4. Vehicles treated under 49 U.S.C. 32901
(1978) as non-passenger automobiles.
This includes limousines manufactured
primarily to transport more than 10 persons.

Exemptions. No one is exempt from the gas
guzzler tax, including the federal government,
state and local governments, qualified blood
collector organizations, and nonprofit educational organizations. However, see Vehicles not
subject to tax, earlier.
Form 6197. Use Form 6197 to figure your tax
liability for each quarter. Attach Form 6197 to
your Form 720 for the quarter. See the Form
6197 instructions for more information and the
one-time filing rules.
Credit or refund. If the manufacturer paid the
tax on a vehicle that is used or resold for an
emergency use, the manufacturer can claim a
credit or refund. For information about how to
file for credits or refunds, see the Instructions for
Form 720 or Form 8849.

The claim for a credit or refund must be filed
within 6 months after the vaccine is returned or
destroyed.
Conditions to allowance. To claim a credit
or refund, the person who paid the tax must
have repaid or agreed to repay the tax to the ultimate purchaser of the vaccine or obtained the
written consent of such purchaser to allowance
of the credit or refund.

6.

Retail Tax on
Heavy Trucks,
Tax is imposed on certain vaccines sold by the
The manufacturer can sell a vehicle descrimanufacturer in the United States. A taxable
bed in item (3) tax free only when the sale is
Trailers, and
vaccine means any of the following vaccines.
made directly to a purchaser for the described
emergency use and the manufacturer and pur• Any vaccine containing diphtheria toxoid.
chaser (other than a state or local government)
• Any vaccine containing tetanus toxoid.
Tractors
are registered.
• Any vaccine containing pertussis bacteria,

Treat an Indian tribal government as a state
only if the police or other law enforcement purposes are an essential tribal government function.
Model type. Model type is a particular class of
automobile as determined by EPA regulations.

Fuel economy. Fuel economy is the average
number of miles an automobile travels on a gallon of gasoline (or diesel fuel) rounded to the
nearest 0.1 mile as figured by the EPA.
Imported automobiles. The tax also applies to automobiles that don’t have a prototype-based fuel economy rating assigned by the
EPA. An automobile imported into the United
States without a certificate of conformity to U.S.
emission standards and that has no assigned
fuel economy rating must be either:
• Converted by installation of emission controls to conform in all material respects to
an automobile already certified for sale in
the United States, or
• Modified by installation of emission control
components and individually tested to
demonstrate emission compliance.
An imported automobile that has been converted to conform to an automobile already certified for sale in the United States may use the
fuel economy rating assigned to that certified
automobile.
A fuel economy rating isn't generally available for modified imported automobiles because
the EPA doesn't require a highway fuel economy test on them. A separate highway fuel
economy test would be required to devise a fuel
economy rating (otherwise the automobile is
presumed to fall within the lowest fuel economy
rating category).
For more information about fuel economy
ratings for imported automobiles, see Revenue
Ruling 86-20 and Revenue Procedure 86-9 in
Cumulative Bulletin 1986-1, and Revenue Procedure 87-10 in Cumulative Bulletin 1987-1.
34

Vaccines

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

extracted or partial cell bacteria, or specific
pertussis antigens.
Any vaccine containing polio virus.
Any vaccine against measles.
Any vaccine against mumps.
Any vaccine against rubella.
Any vaccine against hepatitis A.
Any vaccine against hepatitis B.
Any vaccine against chicken pox.
Any vaccine against rotavirus gastroenteritis.
Any HIB vaccine.
Any conjugate vaccine against streptococcus pneumoniae.
Any trivalent vaccine against influenza or
any other vaccine against influenza.
Any meningococcal vaccine.
Any vaccine against the human papillomavirus.

The effective date for the tax on any vaccine
against influenza, other than trivalent influenza
vaccines, is the later of August 1, 2013, or the
date the Secretary of Health and Human Services lists a vaccine against seasonal influenza
for purposes of compensation for any vaccine-related injury or death through the Vaccine
Injury Compensation Trust Fund.
The tax is $0.75 per dose of each taxable
vaccine. The tax per dose on a vaccine that
contains more than one taxable vaccine is
$0.75 times the number of taxable vaccines.
Taxable use. Any manufacturer (including a
governmental entity) that uses a taxable vaccine before it's sold will be liable for the tax in
the same manner as if the vaccine was sold by
the manufacturer.
Credit or refund. A credit or refund (without interest) is available if the vaccine is:
• Returned to the person who paid the tax
(other than for resale), or
• Destroyed.

Chapter 6

A tax of 12% of the sales price is imposed on
the first retail sale of the following articles, including related parts and accessories sold on or
in connection with, or with the sale of, the articles.
• Truck chassis and bodies.
• Truck trailer and semitrailer chassis and
bodies.
• Tractors of the kind chiefly used for highway transportation in combination with a
trailer or semitrailer.
A truck is a highway vehicle primarily designed
to transport its load on the same chassis as the
engine, even if it's equipped to tow a vehicle,
such as a trailer or semitrailer.
A tractor is a highway vehicle designed to tow a
vehicle, such as a trailer or semitrailer. A tractor
may carry incidental items of cargo when towing
or limited amounts of cargo when not towing.
A sale of a truck, truck trailer, or semitrailer is
considered a sale of a chassis and a body.
The seller is liable for the tax.
Chassis or body. A chassis or body is taxable
only if you sell it for use as a component part of
a highway vehicle that is a truck, truck trailer or
semitrailer, or a tractor of the kind chiefly used
for highway transportation in combination with a
trailer or semitrailer.
Highway vehicle. A highway vehicle is any
self-propelled vehicle designed to carry a load
over public highways, whether or not it's also
designed to perform other functions. Examples
of vehicles designed to carry a load over public
highways are passenger automobiles, motorcycles, buses, and highway-type trucks and truck
tractors. A vehicle is a highway vehicle even
though the vehicle's design allows it to perform

Retail Tax on Heavy Trucks, Trailers, and Tractors

Publication 510 (12-2025)

a highway transportation function for only one of
the following.
• A particular type of load, such as passengers, furnishings, and personal effects (as
in a house, office, or utility trailer).
• A special kind of cargo, goods, supplies, or
materials.
• Some off-highway task unrelated to highway transportation, except as discussed
next.
Vehicles not considered highway vehicles. Generally, the following kinds of vehicles
aren’t considered highway vehicles for purposes of the retail tax.
1. Specially designed mobile machinery
for nontransportation functions. A
self-propelled vehicle isn't a highway vehicle if all the following apply.
a. The chassis has permanently mounted to it machinery or equipment used
to perform certain operations (construction, manufacturing, drilling, mining, timbering, processing, farming, or
similar operations) if the operation of
the machinery or equipment is unrelated to transportation on or off the public highways.
b. The chassis has been specially designed to serve only as a mobile carriage and mount (and power source, if
applicable) for the machinery or
equipment, whether or not the machinery or equipment is in operation.
c. The chassis couldn’t, because of its
special design and without substantial
structural modification, be used as
part of a vehicle designed to carry any
other load.

33,000 pounds or less. It also doesn't apply to
truck trailer and semitrailer chassis and bodies
suitable for use with a trailer or semitrailer that
has a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or
less. Tractors that have a gross vehicle weight
of 19,500 pounds or less and a gross combined
weight of 33,000 pounds or less are excluded
from the 12% retail tax.
The following four classifications of truck
body types meet the suitable for use standard and will be excluded from the retail excise
tax.
• Platform truck bodies 21 feet or less in
length.
• Dry freight and refrigerated truck van bodies 24 feet or less in length.
• Dump truck bodies with load capacities of
8 cubic yards or less.
• Refuse packer truck bodies with load capacities of 20 cubic yards or less.
For more information on these classifications,
see Revenue Procedure 2005-19, I.R.B.
2005-14,
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2005-14_IRB#RP-2005-19.
The gross vehicle weight means the maximum total weight of a loaded vehicle. Generally,
this maximum total weight is the gross vehicle
weight rating provided by the manufacturer or
determined by the seller of the completed article. The seller's gross vehicle weight rating is
determined solely on the basis of the strength of
the chassis frame and the axle capacity and
placement. The seller may not take into account
any readily attachable components (such as
tires or rim assemblies) in determining the gross
vehicle weight.

3. Nontransportation trailers and
semitrailers. A trailer or semitrailer isn't
treated as a highway vehicle if it's specially
designed to function only as an enclosed
stationary shelter for carrying on a nontransportation function at an off-highway
site. For example, a trailer that is capable
only of functioning as an office for an
off-highway construction operation isn't a
highway vehicle.

Parts or accessories. The tax applies to parts
or accessories sold on or in connection with, or
with the sale of, a taxable article. For example, if
at the time of the sale by the retailer, the part or
accessory has been ordered from the retailer,
the part or accessory will be considered as sold
in connection with the sale of the vehicle. The
tax applies in this case whether or not the retailer bills the parts or accessories separately.
If the retailer sells a taxable chassis, body, or
tractor without parts or accessories considered
essential for the operation or appearance of the
taxable article, the sale of the parts or accessories by the retailer to the purchaser is considered made in connection with the sale of the
taxable article even though they're shipped separately, at the same time, or on a different date.
The tax applies unless there is evidence to the
contrary. For example, if a retailer sells to any
person a chassis and the bumpers for the chassis, or sells a taxable tractor and the fifth wheel
and attachments, the tax applies to the parts or
accessories regardless of the method of billing
or the time at which the shipments were made.
The tax doesn't apply to parts and accessories
that are spares or replacements.
The tax imposed on parts and accessories
sold on or in connection with the taxable articles
listed earlier and the tax imposed on the separate purchase of parts and accessories for the
taxable articles listed earlier don’t apply to an
idling reduction device or insulation that has an
R value of at least R35 per inch.

Gross vehicle weight. The tax doesn't apply
to truck chassis and bodies suitable for use with
a vehicle that has a gross vehicle weight of

Idling reduction device. An idling reduction device is any device or system of devices
that provide the tractor with services, such as

2. Vehicles specially designed for
off-highway transportation. A vehicle
isn't treated as a highway vehicle if the vehicle is specially designed for the primary
function of transporting a particular type of
load other than over the public highway
and because of this special design, the vehicles's capability to transport a load over
a public highway is substantially limited or
impaired.
To make this determination, you can
take into account the vehicle's size,
whether the vehicle is subject to licensing,
safety, or other requirements, and whether
the vehicle can transport a load at a sustained speed of at least 25 miles per hour.
It doesn't matter that the vehicle can carry
heavier loads off highway than it's allowed
to carry over the highway.

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 6

heat, air conditioning, and electricity, without the
use of the main drive engine while the tractor is
temporarily parked or stationary. The device
must be affixed to the tractor and determined by
the Administrator of the EPA, in consultation
with the Secretary of Energy and Secretary of
Transportation, to reduce idling while parked or
stationary. The EPA discusses idling reduction
technologies on its website at EPA.gov/VerifiedDiesel-Tech/Idling-Reduction-TechnologiesIRTs-Trucks-and-School-Buses.
Separate purchase. The tax generally applies to the price of a part or accessory and its
installation if the following conditions are met.
• The owner, lessee, or operator of any vehicle that contains a taxable article installs
any part or accessory on the vehicle.
• The installation occurs within 6 months after the vehicle is first placed in service.
The owners of the trade or business installing the parts or accessories are secondarily liable for the tax.
A vehicle is placed in service on the date the
owner takes actual possession of the vehicle.
This date is established by a signed delivery
ticket or other comparable document indicating
delivery to and acceptance by the owner.
The tax doesn't apply if the installed part or
accessory is a replacement part or accessory.
The tax also doesn't apply if the total price of
the parts and accessories, including installation
charges, during the 6-month period is $1,000 or
less. However, if the total price is more than
$1,000, the tax applies to the cost of all parts
and accessories (and installation charges) during that period.
Example. You bought a taxable vehicle and
placed it in service on April 8. On May 3, you
bought and installed parts and accessories at a
cost of $850. On July 15, you bought and installed parts and accessories for $300. Tax of $138
(12% of $1,150) applies on July 15. Also, tax
will apply to any costs of additional parts and
accessories installed on the vehicle before October 8.
First retail sale defined. The sale of an article
is treated as the first retail sale, and the seller
will be liable for the tax imposed on the sale unless one of the following exceptions applies.
• There has been a prior taxable sale, lease,
or use of the article (however, see Tax on
resale of tax-paid trailers and semitrailers,
later).
• The sale qualifies as a tax-free sale under
section 4221 (see Sales exempt from tax,
later).
• The seller in good faith accepts from the
purchaser a statement signed under penalties of perjury and executed in good faith
that the purchaser intends to resell the article or lease it on a long-term basis (a
model certificate is shown in the Appendix
as Model Certificate T). There is no registration requirement.
Leases. A long-term lease (a lease with a
term of 1 year or more, taking into account options to renew) before a first retail sale is treated
as a taxable sale. The tax is imposed on the lessor at the time of the lease.

Retail Tax on Heavy Trucks, Trailers, and Tractors

35

A short-term lease (a lease with a term of
less than 1 year, taking into account options to
renew) before a first retail sale is treated as a
taxable use. The tax is imposed on the lessor at
the time of the lease.
Exported vehicle. A vehicle exported before its first retail sale, used in a foreign country,
and then returned to the United States is subject to the retail tax on its first domestic use or
retail sale after importation.
Tax on resale of tax-paid trailers and
semitrailers. The tax applies to a trailer or
semitrailer resold within 6 months after having
been sold in a taxable sale. The seller liable for
the tax on the resale can claim a credit equal to
the tax paid on the prior taxable sale. The credit
can't exceed the tax on the resale. See
Regulations section 145.4052-1(a)(4) for information on the conditions to allowance for the
credit.
Use treated as sale. If any person uses a
taxable article before the first retail sale of the
article, that person is liable for the tax as if the
article had been sold at retail by that person.
Figure the tax on the price at which similar articles are sold in the ordinary course of trade by
retailers. The tax attaches when the use begins.
If the seller of an article regularly sells the articles at retail in arm's-length transactions, figure the tax on its use on the lowest established
retail price for the articles in effect at the time of
the taxable use.
If the seller of an article doesn't regularly sell
the articles at retail in arm's-length transactions,
a constructive price on which the tax is figured
will be determined by the IRS after considering
the selling practices and price structures of sellers of similar articles.
If a seller of an article incurs liability for tax
on the use of the article and later sells or leases
the article in a transaction that otherwise would
be taxable, liability for tax isn't incurred on the
later sale or lease.
Presumptive retail sales price. There are
rules to ensure that the tax base of transactions
considered to be taxable sales includes either
an actual or presumed markup percentage. If
the person liable for tax is the vehicle's manufacturer, producer, or importer, the following dis-

cussions show how you figure the presumptive
retail sales price depending on the type of
transaction and the persons involved in the
transaction. Table 6-1 outlines the appropriate
tax base calculation for various transactions.
The presumed markup percentage to be
used for trucks and truck-tractors is 4%. But for
truck trailers and semitrailers and remanufactured trucks and tractors, the presumed markup
percentage is zero.
Sale. For a taxable sale by a manufacturer,
producer, importer, or related person, you generally figure the tax on a tax base of the sales
price plus an amount equal to the presumed
markup percentage multiplied by that sales
price.
Long-term lease. In the case of a
long-term lease by a manufacturer, producer,
importer, or related person, figure the tax on a
tax base of the constructive sales price plus an
amount equal to the presumed markup percentage multiplied by the constructive sales price.
Short-term lease. When a manufacturer,
producer, importer, or related person leases an
article in a short-term lease considered a taxable use, figure the tax on a constructive sales
price at which those or similar articles are generally sold in the ordinary course of trade by retailers.
But if the lessor in this situation regularly
sells articles at retail in arm's-length transactions, figure the tax on the lowest established
retail price in effect at the time of the taxable
use.
If a person other than the manufacturer, producer, importer, or related person leases an article in a short-term lease considered a taxable
use, figure the tax on a tax base of the price for
which the article was sold to the lessor plus the
cost of parts and accessories installed by the
lessor and a presumed markup percentage.
Related person. A related person is any
member of the same controlled group as the
manufacturer, producer, or importer. Don't treat
as a related person a person that sells the articles through a permanent retail establishment in
the normal course of being a retailer if that person has records to prove the article was sold for

Table 6-1. Tax Base
IF the transaction is a...

THEN figure the base by using the...

Sale by the manufacturer, producer,
importer, or related person

Sales price plus (presumed markup
percentage × sales price)

Sale by the dealer

Total consideration paid for the item including
any charges incident to placing it in a
condition ready for use

Long-term lease by the manufacturer,
producer, importer, or related person

Constructive sales price plus (presumed
markup percentage × constructive sales price)

Short-term lease by the manufacturer,
producer, importer, or related person

Constructive sales price at which such or
similar articles are sold

Long- or Short-term lease by a lessor other
than the manufacturer, producer, importer,
or related person

Price for which the article was sold to the
lessor plus the cost of parts and accessories
installed by the lessor plus a presumed
markup percentage

Short-term lease where the articles are
regularly sold at arm's length

Lowest established retail price in effect at the
time of the taxable use

36

Chapter 6

a price that included a markup equal to or
greater than the presumed markup percentage.
General rule for sales by dealers to the consumer. For a taxable sale, other than a
long-term lease, by a person other than a manufacturer, producer, importer, or related person,
your tax base is the retail sales price as discussed next under Determination of tax base.
When you sell an article to the consumer,
generally you don’t add a presumed markup to
the tax base. However, you do add a markup if
all the following apply.
• You don’t perform any significant activities
relating to the processing of the sale of a
taxable article.
• The main reason for processing the sale
through you is to avoid or evade the presumed markup.
• You don’t have records proving that the article was sold for a price that included a
markup equal to or greater than the presumed markup percentage.
In these situations, your tax base is the sales
price plus an amount equal to the presumed
markup percentage multiplied by that selling
price.
Determination of tax base. These rules apply
to both normal retail sales price and presumptive retail sales price computations. To arrive at
the tax base, the price is the total consideration
paid (including trade-in allowance) for the item
and includes any charge incident to placing the
article in a condition ready for use. However,
see Presumptive retail sales price, earlier.
Exclusions from tax base. Exclude from
the tax base the retail excise tax imposed on
the sale. Exclude any state or local retail sales
tax if stated as a separate charge from the price
whether the sales tax is imposed on the seller
or purchaser. Also exclude the value of any
used component of the article furnished by the
first user of the article.
Exclude charges for transportation, delivery,
insurance, and installation (other than installation charges for parts and accessories, discussed earlier) and other expenses incurred in
connection with the delivery of an article to a
purchaser. These expenses are those incurred
in delivery from the retail dealer to the customer.
In the case of delivery directly from the manufacturer to the dealer's customer, include the
transportation and delivery charges to the extent the charges don't exceed what it would
have cost to ship the article to the dealer.
Exclude amounts charged for machinery or
equipment that doesn't contribute to the highway transportation function of the vehicle, provided those charges are supported by adequate
records. For example, for an industrial vacuum
loader vehicle, exclude amounts charged for the
vacuum pump and hose, filter system, material
separator, silencer or muffler, control cabinet,
and ladder. Similarly, for a sewer cleaning vehicle, exclude amounts charged for the high pressure water pump, hose components, and the
vacuum pipe.
Sales not at arm's length. For any taxable
article sold (not at arm's length) at less than the
fair market price, figure the excise tax on the

Retail Tax on Heavy Trucks, Trailers, and Tractors

Publication 510 (12-2025)

price for which similar articles are sold at retail
in the ordinary course of trade.
A sale isn't at arm's length if either of the following apply.
• One of the parties is controlled (in law or in
fact) by the other or there is common control, whether or not the control is actually
exercised to influence the sales price.
• The sale is made under special arrangements between a seller and a purchaser.
Installment sales. If the first retail sale is
an installment sale, or other form of sale in
which the sales price is paid in installments, tax
liability arises at the time of the sale. The tax is
figured on the entire sales price. No part of the
tax is deferred because the sales price is paid in
installments.
Repairs and modifications. The tax
doesn't apply to the sale or use of an article that
has been repaired or modified unless the cost
of the repairs and modifications is more than
75% of the retail price of a comparable new article. This includes modifications that change the
transportation function of an article or restore a
wrecked article to a functional condition. However, this exception generally doesn't apply to
an article that wasn't subject to the tax when it
was new.
Further manufacture. The tax doesn't apply to the use by a person of a taxable article as
material in the manufacture or production of, or
as a component part of, another article to be
manufactured or produced by that person. Don't
treat a person as engaged in the manufacture of
any article merely because that person combines the article with a:
• Coupling device (including any fifth wheel);
• Wrecker crane;
• Loading and unloading equipment (including any crane, hoist, winch, or power liftgate);
• Aerial ladder or tower;
• Ice and snow control equipment;
• Earth moving, excavation, and construction
equipment;
• Spreader;
• Sleeper cab;
• Cab shield; or
• Wood or metal floor.
Combining an article with an item in this list
doesn't give rise to taxability. However, see
Parts or accessories, earlier.
Articles exempt from tax. The tax on heavy
trucks, trailers, and tractors doesn't apply to the
sales of the articles described in the following
discussions.
Rail trailers and rail vans. This is any
chassis or body of a trailer or semitrailer designed for use both as a highway vehicle and a
railroad car (including any parts and accessories designed primarily for use on and in connection with it). Don't treat a piggyback trailer or
semitrailer as designed for use as a railroad car.
Parts and accessories. This is any part or
accessory sold separately from the truck or
trailer, except as described earlier under Parts
or accessories and Separate purchase.

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Trash containers. This is any box, container, receptacle, bin, or similar article that
meets all the following conditions.
• It's designed to be used as a trash container.
• It isn't designed to carry freight other than
trash.
• It isn't designed to be permanently mounted on or affixed to a truck chassis or body.

export, and sales for resale or long-term leasing.

House trailers. This is any house trailer
(regardless of size) suitable for use in connection with either passenger automobiles or
trucks.

Credits or refunds. A credit or refund (without
interest) of the retail tax on the taxable articles
described earlier may be allowable if the tax has
been paid with respect to an article and, before
any other use, such article is used by any person as a component part of another taxable article manufactured or produced. The person using the article as a component part is eligible for
the credit or refund.
A credit or refund is allowable if, before any
other use, an article is, by any person:
• Exported,
• Used or sold for use as supplies for vessels,
• Sold to a state or local government for its
exclusive use,
• Sold to a nonprofit educational organization for its exclusive use, or
• Sold to a qualified blood collector organization for its exclusive use in the collection,
storage, or transportation of blood.

Camper coaches or bodies for self-propelled mobile homes. This is any article designed to be mounted or placed on trucks, truck
chassis, or automobile chassis and to be used
primarily as living quarters or camping accommodations. Further, the tax doesn't apply to
chassis specifically designed and constructed
to accommodate and transport self-propelled
mobile home bodies.
Farm feed, seed, and fertilizer equipment. This is any body primarily designed to
process or prepare, haul, spread, load, or unload feed, seed, or fertilizer to or on farms. This
exemption applies only to the farm equipment
body (and parts and accessories) and not to the
chassis upon which the farm equipment is
mounted.
Ambulances and hearses. This is any
ambulance, hearse, or combination ambulance-hearse.
Truck-tractors. This is any truck-tractor
specifically designed for use in shifting semitrailers in and around freight yards and freight
terminals.
Concrete mixers. This is any article designed to be placed or mounted on a truck,
truck trailer, or semitrailer chassis to be used to
process or prepare concrete. This exemption
doesn't apply to the chassis on which the article
is mounted.
Sales exempt from tax. The following sales
are ordinarily exempt from tax.
• Sales to a state or local government for its
exclusive use.
• Sales to Indian tribal governments, but only
if the transaction involves the exercise of
an essential tribal government function.
• Sales to a nonprofit educational organization for its exclusive use.
• Sales to a qualified blood collector organization (as defined under Communications
Tax in chapter 4) for its exclusive use in the
collection, storage, or transportation of
blood.
• Sales for use by the purchaser for further
manufacture of other taxable articles.
• Sales for export or for resale by the purchaser to a second purchaser for export.
• Sales to the United Nations for official use.
Registration requirement. In general, the
seller and buyer must be registered for a sale to
be tax free. See the Form 637 instructions for
more information. Certain registration exceptions apply in the case of sales to state and local governments, sales to foreign purchasers for
Chapter 7

Ship Passenger Tax

Further manufacture. If you buy articles
tax free and resell or use them other than in the
manufacture of another article, you're liable for
the tax on their resale or use just as if you had
manufactured and made the first retail sale of
them.

A credit or refund is also allowable if there is a
price readjustment by reason of the return or repossession of an article or by reason of a bona
fide discount, rebate, or allowance.
See Conditions to allowance in chapter 5.
Tire credit. A credit is allowed against the retail tax on the taxable articles described earlier
if taxable tires are sold on or in connection with
the sale of the article. The credit is equal to the
manufacturers excise tax imposed on the taxable tires. This is the section 4051(d) taxable tire
credit and is claimed on Form 720, Schedule C
for the same quarter for which the tax on the
heavy vehicle is reported.

7.
Ship Passenger
Tax
A tax of $3 per passenger is imposed on certain
ship voyages, as explained later under Taxable
situations. The tax is imposed only once for
each passenger, either at the time of first embarkation or disembarkation in the United
States.
The person providing the voyage (the operator
of the vessel) is liable for the tax.
Voyage. A voyage is the vessel's journey that
includes the outward and homeward trips or
passages. The voyage starts when the vessel
begins to load passengers and continues until
37

the vessel has completed at least one outward
and one homeward passage. The tax may be
imposed even if a passenger doesn't make both
an outward and a homeward passage as long
as the voyage begins or ends in the United
States.
Passenger. A passenger is an individual carried on the vessel other than the master or a
crew member or other individual engaged in the
business of the vessel or its owners.
Example 1. John Smith works as a guest
lecturer. The cruise line hired John for the benefit of the passengers. Therefore, John is engaged in the business of the vessel and isn't a
passenger.
Example 2. Marian Green is a travel agent.
Marian is taking the cruise as a promotional trip
to determine if it should be offered to the clients
of the travel agency. Marian is a passenger.
Taxable situations. There are two taxable situations. The first situation involves voyages on
commercial passenger vessels extending over
one or more nights. A voyage extends over one
or more nights if it extends for more than 24
hours. A passenger vessel is any vessel with
stateroom or berth accommodations for more
than 16 passengers.
The second situation involves voyages on a
commercial vessel transporting passengers engaged in gambling on the vessel beyond the territorial waters of the United States. Territorial
waters of the United States are those waters
within the international boundary line between
the United States and any contiguous foreign
country or within 3 nautical miles (3.45 statute
miles) from low tide on the coastline. If passengers participate as players in any policy game
or other lottery, or any other game of chance for
money or other thing of value that the owner or
operator of the vessel (or their employee, agent,
or franchisee) conducts, sponsors, or operates,
the voyage is subject to the ship passenger tax.
The tax applies regardless of the duration of the
voyage. A casual, friendly game of chance with
other passengers that isn't conducted, sponsored, or operated by the owner or operator
isn't gambling for determining if the voyage is
subject to the ship passenger tax.
Exemptions. The tax doesn't apply when a
vessel is on a voyage of less than 12 hours between two points in the United States or if a vessel is owned or operated by a state or local government.

8.
Foreign
Insurance Taxes
Tax is imposed on insurance policies issued by
foreign insurers. Any person who makes, signs,
issues, or sells any of the documents and instruments subject to the tax, or for whose use or
benefit they're made, signed, issued, or sold, is
liable for the tax.
The following tax rates apply to each dollar (or
fraction thereof) of the premium paid.
1. Casualty insurance and indemnity, fidelity,
and surety bonds: $0.04. For example, on
a premium payment of $10.10, the tax is
$0.44.
2. Life, sickness, and accident insurance,
and annuity contracts: $0.01. For example,
on a premium payment of $10.10, the tax
is $0.11.
3. Reinsurance policies covering any of the
taxable contracts described in items (1)
and (2): $0.01.
However, the tax doesn't apply to casualty insurance premiums paid to foreign insurers for
coverage of export goods in transit to foreign
destinations.
Premium. Premium means the agreed
price or consideration for assuming and carrying the risk or obligation. It includes any additional charge or assessment payable under the
contract, whether in one sum or installments. If
premiums are refunded, claim the tax paid on
those premiums as an overpayment against tax
due on other premiums paid or file a claim for
refund.
When liability attaches. The liability for this
tax attaches when the premium payment is
transferred to the foreign insurer or reinsurer (including transfers to any bank, trust fund, or similar recipient designated by the foreign insurer or
reinsurer) or to any nonresident agent, solicitor,
or broker. A person can pay the tax before the
liability attaches if the person keeps records
consistent with that practice.
Who must file. The person who pays the premium to the foreign insurer (or to any nonresident person such as a foreign broker) must pay
the tax and file the return. Otherwise, any person who issued or sold the policy, or who is insured under the policy, is required to pay the tax
and file the return.
Records: The person liable for this tax must
keep accurate records that identify each policy
or instrument subject to tax. These records
must clearly establish the type of policy or instrument, the gross premium paid, the identity
of the insured and insurer, and the total premium charged. If the premium is to be paid in installments, the records must also establish the

38

Chapter 9

Obligations Not in Registered Form

amount and anniversary date of each installment.
The records must be kept at the place of
business or other convenient location for at
least 3 years after the later of the date any part
of the tax became due, or the date any part of
the tax was paid. During this period, the records
must be readily accessible to the IRS.
The person having control or possession of
a policy or instrument subject to this tax must
keep the policy for at least 3 years after the date
any part of the tax on it was paid.
Tip: For information on reinsurance premiums
paid from one foreign insurer to another foreign
insurer, see Revenue Ruling 2008-15, I.R.B.
2008-12,
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2008-12_IRB#RR-2008-15
Treaty-based positions under I.R.C 6114.
You may have to file an annual report disclosing
the amount of premiums exempt from U.S. excise tax as a result of the application of a treaty
with the United States that overrides (or otherwise modifies) any provision of the Internal Revenue Code.
Attach any disclosure statement to the first
quarter Form 720. You may be able to use Form
8833, Treaty-Based Return Position Disclosure
Under Section 6114 or 7701(b), as a disclosure
statement. See the Instructions for Form 720 for
information on how and where to file.
See Revenue Procedure 92-14 in Cumulative Bulletin 1992-1 for procedures you can use
to claim a refund of this tax under certain U.S.
treaties.

9.
Obligations Not
in Registered
Form
Tax is imposed on any person who issues a registration-required obligation not in registered
form. The tax is:
• 1% of the principal of the obligation, multiplied by • The number of calendar years (or portions
of calendar years) during the period starting on the date the obligation was issued
and ending on the date it matures.
A registration-required obligation is any obligation other than one that meets any of the following conditions.
1. It's issued by a natural person.
2. It isn't of a type offered to the public.
3. It has a maturity (at issue) of not more than
1 year.
4. It's a tax-exempt bond.
Publication 510 (12-2025)

5. It's issued under an arrangement reasonably designed to ensure that the obligation
will be sold only to foreign persons.
For item (5), if the obligation isn't in registered
form, the interest on the obligation must be payable only outside the United States and its territories. Also, the obligation must state on its face
that any U.S. person who holds it shall be subject to limits under the U.S. income tax laws.

10.
Indoor Tanning
Services Tax
The tax on indoor tanning service is 10% of the
amount paid for that service. The tax is paid by
the person paying for the services and is collected by the person receiving payment for the indoor tanning services.
Definition of indoor tanning services. Indoor tanning service means a service employing any electronic product designed to incorporate one or more ultraviolet lamps and intended
for the irradiation of an individual by ultraviolet
radiation, with wavelengths in air between 200
and 400 nanometers, to induce skin tanning.
The term doesn't include phototherapy service
performed by, and on the premises of, a licensed medical professional (such as a dermatologist, psychologist, or registered nurse). See
Regulations section 49.5000B-1 (indoor tanning
services) for more information, and special
rules for qualified physical fitness facilities, undesignated payment cards, and bundled payments.

11.
Patient-Centered
Outcomes
Research Fee
The patient-centered outcomes research fee is
imposed on issuers of specified health insurance policies (section 4375) and plan sponsors
of applicable self-insured health plans (section
4376) for policy and plan years ending on or after October 1, 2012. Generally, references to
taxes on Form 720 include this fee.
Specified health insurance policies. See
the Instructions for Form 720 revised for the
second quarter of each year for information on
the fee amount. Generally, issuers of specified
health insurance polices must use one of the
following four alternative methods to determine
the average number of lives covered under a
policy for the policy year.
1. The actual count method.
2. The snapshot method.
3. The member months method.
4. The state form method.
Applicable self-insured health plans. See
the Instructions for Form 720 revised for the
second quarter of each year for information on
the fee amount. Generally, plan sponsors of applicable self-insured health plans must use one
of the following three alternative methods to determine the average number of lives covered
under a plan for the plan year.
1. Actual count method.
2. Snapshot method.

File Form 720. The person receiving the payment for indoor tanning services (collector)
must collect and remit the tax and file the return.
If the tax isn't collected for any reason, the collector is liable for the tax. The collector isn't required to make semimonthly deposits of the tax.

Reporting and paying the fee. File Form 720
annually to report and pay the fee on the second quarter Form 720 no later than July 31 of

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 12

3. Form 5500 method.

Repurchase of Corporate Stock

the calendar year immediately following the last
day of the policy year or plan year to which the
fee applies. If you file Form 720 only to report
the fee, don’t file Form 720 for the first, third, or
fourth quarters of the year. If you file Form 720
to report quarterly excise tax liability for the first,
third, or fourth quarter of the year (for example,
filers reporting the foreign insurance tax (IRS
No. 30)), don’t make an entry on the line for IRS
No. 133 on those filings.
Deposits aren’t required for this fee, so issuers and plan sponsors aren’t required to pay the
fee using the Electronic Federal Tax Payment
System (EFTPS).
However, if the fee is paid using EFTPS, the
payment should be applied to the second quarter. See Electronic deposit requirement under
How To Make Deposits in chapter 14, later.
More information. For more information, including methods for calculating the average
number of lives covered, see the Instructions for
Form 720; sections 4375, 4376, 4377; and Regulations section 46.4375-1. See also T.D. 9602,
I.R.B.
2012-52,
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2012-52_IRB#TD-9602.

12.
Repurchase of
Corporate Stock
The tax is imposed on certain corporations
whose stock is traded on an established securities market. The tax is 1% of the fair market
value (FMV) of any stock repurchased by such
corporations or their specified affiliates during
the tax year. Use Form 7208 to figure the excise
tax on stock repurchases. For more details
about this tax, see Form 7208 and its separate
instructions.

39

Part Three.
Quarterly Filing
Information

13.
Filing Form 720
Use Form 720 to report and pay the excise
taxes previously discussed in this publication.
File Form 720 for each calendar quarter until
you file a final Form 720. For information on filing Form 720 electronically, go to IRS.gov/eFile-Providers/720-MeF-Providers.
You may be required to file your returns on a
monthly or semimonthly basis instead of quarterly if you don’t make deposits as required (see
Payment of Taxes, later) or are liable for the excise tax on taxable fuels and meet certain conditions.
Form 720 has three parts and three schedules.
• Part I consists of excise taxes generally required to be deposited. See Payment of
Taxes, later.
• Part II consists of excise taxes that aren’t
required to be deposited.
• Part III is used to figure your tax liability for
the quarter and the amount of any balance
due or overpayment.
• Schedule A, Excise Tax Liability, is used
to record your net tax liability for each semimonthly period in a quarter. Complete it if
you have an entry in Part I.
• Schedule C, Claims, is used to make
claims. However, Schedule C can only be
used if you're reporting a liability in Part I or
Part II.
• Schedule T, Two-Party Exchange Information Reporting, is used to report certain exchanges of taxable fuel before or in connection with the removal at the terminal
rack.
Attachments to Form 720. You may have
to attach the following forms.
• Form 6197 for the gas guzzler tax.
• Form 6627 for environmental taxes.
• Form 7208 for repurchase of corporate
stock taxes.
Form 720-X. This form is used to make adjustments to Forms 720 filed in prior quarters. You
can file Form 720-X by itself or, if it shows a decrease in tax, you can attach it to Form 720.
See Form 720-X for more information.
Conditions to allowance. For tax decreases, the claimant must check the appropriate
box on Form 720-X stating that:

a. Repaid the tax to the person from
whom it was collected, or
b. Obtained the consent of that person
to the allowance of the adjustment.
2. For other adjustments, the claimant has:
a. Not included the tax in the price of the
article and not collected the tax from
the purchaser,
b. Repaid the tax to the ultimate purchaser, or
c. Attached the written consent of the ultimate purchaser to the allowance of
the adjustment.
However, the conditions listed under (2) don’t
apply to environmental taxes, the ship passenger tax, obligations not in registered form, foreign insurance taxes, fuels used on inland waterways, cellulosic or second generation biofuel
sold as but not used as fuel, biodiesel sold as
fuel but not used as fuel, and certain fuel taxes
if the tax was based on use (for example, dyed
diesel fuel used in trains, LPG, and CNG).
Final return. File a final return if:
• You go out of business, or
• You won’t owe excise taxes that are reportable on Form 720 in future quarters.
Due dates. Form 720 must be filed by the following due dates.
Quarter Covered

Due Dates

January, February, March . . . . .
April 30
April, May, June . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
July 31
July, August, September . . . . . . October 31
October, November,
December . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . January 31
If any due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday,
or legal holiday, you can file the return on the
next business day.
One-time filing. If you import a gas guzzling
automobile, you may be eligible to make a
one-time filing using your SSN if you:
• Don't import gas guzzling automobiles in
the course of your trade or business, and
• Aren’t required to file Form 720 reporting
other excise taxes for the calendar quarter,
except for a one-time filing.
If you meet both requirements above, see
Gas guzzler tax (IRS No. 40) in the Instructions
for Form 720 for how to file and pay the tax.

1. For adjustments of communications or air
transportation taxes, the claimant has:
40

Chapter 14

Payment of Taxes

Annual filing. If you are required to file Form
720 reporting repurchase of corporate stock
tax:
• Don’t report the repurchase of corporate
stock tax quarterly.
• Report the repurchase of corporate stock
tax one time annually on the Form 720
(IRS No. 150) due for the first full quarter
after the close of your tax year, and attach
Form 7208.
Payment voucher. Form 720-V, Payment
Voucher, must be included with Form 720 if you
have a balance due on Form 720, line 10; and
you're making your payment by check or money
order.

14.
Payment of
Taxes
Generally, semimonthly deposits of excise taxes
are required. A semimonthly period is the first
15 days of a month (the first semimonthly period) or the 16th through the last day of a month
(the second semimonthly period).
However, no deposit is required for the situations listed below; the taxes are payable with
Form 720.
• The net liability for taxes listed in Form 720,
Part I doesn’t exceed $2,500 for the quarter.
• The gas guzzler tax is being paid on a
one-time filing.
• The liability is for taxes listed in Form 720,
Part II, except for the floor stocks tax,
which generally requires a single deposit.
• The repurchase of corporate stock tax is a
single, annual payment.

How To Make Deposits
Electronic deposit requirement. Generally,
you must use electronic funds transfer to make
excise tax deposits. Generally, electronic funds
transfers are made using EFTPS. Additionally,
as of October 2024, taxpayers can use IRS Direct Pay to make payments directly from their
checking or savings accounts, without registering or enrolling with EFTPS. IRS Direct Pay for
Publication 510 (12-2025)

businesses is a free and secure payment application available at IRS.gov/DirectPay. If you
don’t want to use EFTPS, or IRS Direct Pay, you
can arrange for your tax professional, financial
institution, payroll service, or other trusted third
party to make deposits on your behalf. Also, you
may arrange for your financial institution to submit a same-day wire payment on your behalf.
EFTPS and IRS Direct Pay are free services
provided by the Department of Treasury. Services provided by your tax professional, financial
institution, payroll service, or other third party
may have a fee. To get more information about
EFTPS or to enroll in EFTPS, visit EFTPS.gov
or call 800-555-4477. Additional information
about EFTPS is also available in Pub. 966,
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: A
Guide to Getting Started.
Depositing on time. For EFTPS deposits to
be on time, you must submit the transaction at
least 1 day before the date the deposit is due
(by 8:00 p.m. Eastern time).
Same-day wire payment option. If you fail to
submit a deposit transaction on EFTPS by 8:00
p.m. Eastern time the day before the date a deposit is due, you can still make your deposit on
time by using the Federal Tax Collection Service (FTCS). To use the same-day wire payment
method, you will need to make arrangements
with your financial institution ahead of time.
Please check with your financial institution regarding availability, deadlines, and costs. Your
financial institution may charge you a fee for
payments made this way. To learn more about
the information you will need to provide your financial institution to make a same-day wire payment, visit IRS.gov/Payments and click on
“Same-day wire.”
Tip: You will automatically be enrolled in
EFTPS when you apply for an EIN. You will receive a separate mailing containing instructions
for activating your EFTPS enrollment after you
receive your EIN.

When To Make Deposits
There are two methods for determining deposits: the regular method and the alternative
method.
The regular method applies to all taxes in
Part I of Form 720 except for communications
and air transportation taxes if deposits are
based on amounts billed or tickets sold, rather
than on amounts actually collected. See Alternative method (IRS Nos. 22, 26, 27, and 28),
later.

ceding day that isn't a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.

Caution: Don't reduce your liability by any
amounts from Form 720-X.

Alternative method (IRS Nos. 22, 26, 27,
and 28). Deposits of communications and air
transportation taxes may be based on taxes included in amounts billed or tickets sold during a
semimonthly period instead of on taxes actually
collected during the period. Under the alternative method, the tax included in amounts billed
or tickets sold during a semimonthly period is
considered collected during the first 7 days of
the second following semimonthly period. The
deposit of tax is due by the third banking day after the seventh day of that period.
For an example of the alternative method,
see the Instructions for Form 720.

Safe Harbor Rule

To use the alternative method, you must
keep a separate account of the tax included in
amounts billed or tickets sold during the month
and report on Form 720 the tax included in
amounts billed or tickets sold and not the
amount of tax that is actually collected. For example, amounts billed in December, January,
and February are considered collected during
January, February, and March and are reported
on Form 720 as the tax for the first quarter of
the calendar year.
The separate account for each month must
reflect:
1. All items of tax included in amounts billed
or tickets sold during the month, and
2. Other items of adjustment relating to tax
for prior months (within the statute of limitations on credits or refunds).
The separate account for any month can't include an adjustment resulting from a refusal to
pay or inability to collect unless the refusal has
been reported to the IRS. See Uncollected Tax
Report in chapter 4.
The net amount of tax that is considered collected during the semimonthly period must be
either:
• The net amount of tax reflected in the separate account for the corresponding semimonthly period of the preceding month, or
• One-half of the net amount of tax reflected
in the separate account for the preceding
month.
Special rule for deposits of taxes in September. See the Instructions for Form 720 for a
special rule on deposits made in September.

Amount of Deposits

If you're depositing more than one tax under
a method, combine all the taxes under the
method and make one deposit for the semimonthly period.

Deposits for a semimonthly period must generally be at least 95% of the net tax liability for that
period unless the safe harbor rule applies. Generally, you don't have to make a deposit for a period in which you incurred no tax liability.

Regular method. The deposit of tax for a semimonthly period is due by the 14th day following
that period. Generally, this is the 29th day of a
month for the first semimonthly period and the
14th day of the following month for the second
semimonthly period. If the 14th or the 29th day
falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, you
must make the deposit by the immediately pre-

Net tax liability. Your net tax liability is your tax
liability for the period minus any claims on Form
720, Schedule C for the period. You may figure
your net tax liability for a semimonthly period by
dividing your net liability incurred during the calendar month by two. If you use this method, you
must use it for all semimonthly periods in the
calendar quarter.

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 14

Payment of Taxes

The safe harbor rule applies separately to deposits under the regular method and the alternative method. Persons who filed Form 720 for
the look-back quarter (the second calendar
quarter preceding the current quarter) are considered to meet the semimonthly deposit requirement if the deposit for each semimonthly
period in the current quarter is at least 1/6
(16.67%) of the net tax liability reported for the
look-back quarter.
For the semimonthly period for which the additional deposit is required, the additional deposit must be at least 11/90 (12.23%), 10/90
(11.12%) for non-EFTPS, of the net tax liability
reported for the look-back quarter. Also, the total deposit for that semimonthly period must be
at least 1/6 (16.67%) of the net tax liability reported for the look-back quarter.
Exceptions. The safe harbor rule doesn't
apply to:
• The first and second quarters beginning on
or after the effective date of an increase in
the rate of tax unless the deposit of taxes
for each semimonthly period in the calendar quarter is at least 1/6 (16.67%) of the
tax liability you would have had for the
look-back quarter if the increased rate of
tax had been in effect for that look-back
quarter;
• Any quarter if liability includes any tax not
in effect throughout the look-back quarter;
or
• For deposits under the alternative method,
any quarter if liability includes any tax not
in effect throughout the look-back quarter
and the month preceding the look-back
quarter.
Requirements to be met. For the safe harbor
rule to apply, you must:
• Make each deposit timely at an authorized
financial institution, and
• Pay any underpayment for the current
quarter by the due date of the return.
Caution: The IRS may withdraw the right to
make deposits of tax using the safe harbor rule
from any person not complying with these rules.
Tax rate increases. You must modify the safe
harbor rule if there has been an increase in the
rate of tax. You must figure your tax liability in
the look-back quarter as if the increased rate
had been in effect. To qualify for the safe harbor
rule, your deposits can't be less than 1/6 of the
refigured tax liability.

41

15.
Penalties
and Interest
Penalties and interest may result from any of the
following acts.
• Failing to collect and pay over tax as the
collecting agent (see Trust fund recovery
penalty, later).
• Failing to keep adequate records.
• Failing to file returns.
• Failing to pay taxes.
• Filing returns late.
• Filing false or fraudulent returns.
• Paying taxes late.
• Failing to make deposits.
• Depositing taxes late.
• Making false statements relating to tax.
• Failing to register or reregister.
• Misrepresenting that tax is excluded from
the price of an article.
Failure to register or reregister. The civil
penalty for failure to register or reregister if
you're required to register or reregister, unless
due to reasonable cause, is $10,000 for the initial failure, and then $1,000 each day thereafter
you fail to register or reregister.
Claims. There are criminal penalties for false
or fraudulent claims. In addition, any person
who files a refund claim with respect to the use
of certain fuels for an excessive amount (without reasonable cause) may have to pay a civil
penalty. An excessive amount is the amount
claimed that is more than the allowable amount.
The penalty is the greater of two times the excessive amount or $10.
Trust fund recovery penalty. If you provide
taxable communications, air transportation
services, or indoor tanning services, you have
to collect excise taxes from those persons who
pay you for those services. You must pay over
these taxes to the U.S. Government.
If you willfully fail to collect or pay over these
taxes, or if you evade or defeat them in any way,
the trust fund recovery penalty may apply. Willfully means voluntarily, consciously, and intentionally. The trust fund recovery penalty equals
100% of the taxes not collected or not paid over
to the U.S. Government.
The trust fund recovery penalty may be imposed on any person responsible for collecting,
accounting for, and paying over these taxes. If
this person knows that these required actions
aren’t taking place for whatever reason, the person is acting willfully. Paying other expenses of
the business instead of paying the taxes is willful behavior.
A responsible person can be an officer or
employee of a corporation, a partner or employee of a partnership, or any other person
who had responsibility for certain aspects of the
business and financial affairs of the employer
(or business). This may include accountants,
42

trustees in bankruptcy, members of a board,
banks, insurance companies, or sureties. The
responsible person could even be another corporation—in other words, anyone who has the
duty and the ability to direct, account for, or pay
over the money. Having signature power on the
business checking account could be a significant factor in determining responsibility.

How To Get Tax
Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need
help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go
to IRS.gov to find resources that can help you
right away.

16.
Examination and
Appeal
Procedures
If your excise tax return is examined and you
disagree with the findings, you can get information about audit and appeal procedures from
Pub. 556, Examination of Returns, Appeal
Rights, and Claims for Refund. An unagreed
case involving an excise tax covered in this publication differs from other tax cases in that you
can only contest it in court after payment of the
tax by filing suit for a refund in the United States
District Court or the United States Court of Federal Claims.

17.
Rulings Program
The IRS has a program for assisting taxpayers
who have technical problems with tax laws and
regulations. The IRS will answer inquiries from
individuals and organizations about the tax effect of their acts or transactions. The National
Office of the IRS issues rulings on those matters.
A ruling is a written statement to a taxpayer that
interprets and applies tax laws to the taxpayer's
specific set of facts. There are also determination letters issued by IRS directors and information letters issued by IRS directors or the National Office.
There is a fee for most types of determination
letters and rulings. For complete information on
the rulings program, see the first Internal Revenue Bulletin published each year.

Chapter 18

18.

How To Get Tax Help

Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting
federal taxes, credits, and deductions was
enacted in P.L. 119-21, commonly known as the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July 4, 2025. Go
to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After
receiving all your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC,
1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment compensation
statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form
1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement
statements from banks and investment firms
(Forms 1099), you have several options to
choose from to prepare and file your tax return.
You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if
you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax
professional to prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online
or in your local community, if you qualify, include
the following.
• Free File. This program lets you prepare
and file your federal individual income tax
return for free using software or Free File
Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation may not be available through Free File.
Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify
for free online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to
people with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help
preparing their own tax returns. Go to
IRS.gov/VITA, download the free IRS2Go
app, or call 800-906-9887 for information
on free tax return preparation.
• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly
(TCE) program offers free tax help for all
taxpayers, particularly those who are 60
years of age and older. TCE volunteers
specialize in answering questions about
pensions and retirement-related issues
unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE or
download the free IRS2Go app for information on free tax return preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed
Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to
Publication 510 (12-2025)

MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/
MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms,
which can be completed online and then
e-filed regardless of income.
Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.
• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant
(IRS.gov/EITCAssistant) determines if
you’re eligible for the earned income credit
(EIC).
• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN)
helps you get an employer identification
number (EIN) at no cost.
• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/
W4App) makes it easier for you to estimate
the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck.
This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay,
or tax due.
• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
(IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures the amount you
can claim if you itemize deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get
up-to-date information on current
events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you

get answers to some of the most common
tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant,
a tool that will ask you questions and,
based on your input, provide answers on a
number of tax topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions,
and publications. You will find details on
the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your
questions.
• You may also be able to access tax information in your e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return?
There are various types of tax return preparers,
including enrolled agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others who don’t have professional credentials. If
you choose to have someone prepare your tax
return, choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax
preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs
the return, you're ultimately responsible
CAUTION for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare
your return and for the accuracy of every item
reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare
tax returns for others should have a thorough
understanding of tax matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips
for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

!

Employers can register to use Business
Services Online. The Social Security AdminisPublication 510 (12-2025)

tration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/
employer for fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected
Wage and Tax Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability
company (LLC), you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a
business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia
to see the various social media tools the IRS
uses to share the latest information on tax
changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and
services. At the IRS, privacy and security are
our highest priority. We use these tools to share
public information with you. Don’t post your social security number (SSN) or other confidential
information on social media sites. Always protect your identity when using any social networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide
short, informative videos on various tax-related
topics in English and ASL.
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI
Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance
Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean,
Vietnamese, Russian, and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call
833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can
answer questions related to current and future
accessibility products and services available in
alternative media formats (for example, braille,
large print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to your IRS account.
For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000,
Alternative Media Preference, or Form
9000(SP) allows you to elect to receive certain
types of written correspondence in the following
formats.
• Standard Print.

•
•
•
•
•

Large Print.
Braille.
Audio (MP3).
Plain Text File (TXT).
Braille-Ready File (BRF).

Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to
IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print all
the forms, instructions, and publications you

Chapter 18

How To Get Tax Help

may need. Or you can go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You'll need an IRS
Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require signatures. You'll
have the option to submit your form(s) online or
download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans
of your documents to support your submission.
Go to IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in
eBook format. Download and view most tax
publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on mobile devices as
eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's
iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated eBook readers, and
eBook functionality may not operate as intended.
Access your online account (Individual taxpayers only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax
account.
• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
• See payment plan details or apply for a
new payment plan.
• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including key
data from your most recent tax return, and
transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from
the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests
from tax professionals.
Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, you can access a variety of information to help you during the filing season. You
can get a transcript, review your most recently
filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at
IRS.gov/Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional submit an authorization request to access your individual taxpayer IRS OLA. For
more
information,
go
to
IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest
way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and
choose direct deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your
financial account. Direct deposit also avoids the
possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS.
Eight in 10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank or credit
union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related
identity theft issues.
• Tax-related identity theft happens when
someone steals your personal information
to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be
43

affected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with tax-

payers by email, text messages (including
shortened links), telephone calls, or social
media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information
on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and
businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of
tax-related identity theft, you can learn
what steps you should take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP
PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their
SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return
with your SSN. To learn more, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your
mobile device to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at
800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before
mid-February for returns that claimed
CAUTION the EIC or the additional child tax credit
(ACTC). This applies to the entire refund, not
just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends
paying electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list
below. Payments of U.S. tax must be remitted to
the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not
accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the
following options.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank
account. It’s free and secure, and no
sign-in is required. You can change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.
• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet:
Choose an approved payment processor
to pay online or by phone.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a
payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or
through a tax professional.
• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System:
This is the best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment
to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes
with cash at a participating retail store.
• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do
same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for
availability, cost, and time frames.

44

Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption
technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by phone, or from a
mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe
and secure. Paying electronically is quick and
easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment agreement
(IRS.gov/OPA) to meet your tax obligation
in monthly installments if you can’t pay
your taxes in full today. Once you complete
the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier
to see if you can settle your tax debt for
less than the full amount you owe. For
more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/
Form1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of an amended return.
Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of
Form 1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date
you filed your amended return for it to
CAUTION show up in our system, and processing
it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter
you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find
additional information about responding to an
IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able
use the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required documents online
through IRS.gov. For more information, go to
IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP
(Form 1040), Request for Change in Language
Preference, to state a preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications
from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in the requested language. The IRS’s
commitment to LEP taxpayers is part of a
multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive communications, including notices and letters, in
English until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind,
many questions can be answered on IRS.gov
without visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp
for the topics people ask about most. If you still
need help, TACs provide tax help when a tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All
TACs now provide service by appointment, so
you’ll know in advance that you can get the
service you need without long wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or, on the
IRS2Go app, under the Stay Connected tab,
Chapter 18

How To Get Tax Help

choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer
Advocate Service, an independent organization
established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) Is Here To
Help You

What Is the Taxpayer Advocate
Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization within the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS). TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS, makes administrative and legislative recommendations to prevent
or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is
treated fairly and that you know and understand
your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We
are Your Voice at the IRS.

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you
haven’t been able to resolve with the IRS on
your own. Always try to resolve your problem
with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then come to
TAS. Our services are free.
• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You
may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if
you’ve tried and been unable to resolve
your issue with the IRS, or if you believe an
IRS system, process, or procedure just
isn't working as it should.
• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov.
The site can help you with common tax issues and situations, such as what to do if
you make a mistake on your return or if you
get a notice from the IRS.
• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at
www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of
Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To find your local
advocate’s number:
• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.

What Are My Rights as a
Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic
rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with
Publication 510 (12-2025)

the IRS. Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Taxpayer-Rights for more information about the
rights, what they mean to you, and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter
with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer
rights and ensure the IRS is administering the
tax law in a fair and equitable way.

19.
Appendix
This appendix contains models of the certificates, waivers, reports, and statements discussed in Part One.

Model Certificate A
STATEMENT OF SUBSEQUENT SELLER
(To support a claim for refund or payment under section 4081.)
1.
Name, address, and employer identification number of seller in subsequent sale
2.
Name, address, and employer identification number of the buyer in subsequent sale
3.

4.

Date and location of subsequent sale

Volume and type of taxable fuel sold

The undersigned seller (“Seller”) has received the copy of the first taxpayer's report provided with this statement in
connection with Seller's purchase of the taxable fuel described in this statement.
Under penalties of perjury, Seller declares that Seller has examined this statement, including any accompanying
schedules and statements, and, to the best of Seller's knowledge and belief, they're true, correct, and complete.
Signature and date signed
Printed or typed name of person signing this report
Title

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 19

Appendix

45

Model Certificate B
FIRST TAXPAYER'S REPORT
(To support a claim for refund or payment under section 4081.)
1.

First Taxpayer's name, address, and employer identification number
2.

Name, address, and employer identification number of the buyer of the taxable fuel subject to tax
3.
Date and location of removal, entry, or sale
4.
Volume and type of taxable fuel removed, entered, or sold
5. Check type of taxable event:
Removal from refinery
Entry into United States
Bulk transfer from terminal by unregistered position holder
Bulk transfer not received at an approved terminal
Sale within the bulk transfer/terminal system
Removal at the terminal rack
Removal or sale by the blender
6.
Amount of federal excise tax paid on account of the removal, entry, or sale
The undersigned taxpayer (“Taxpayer”) hasn’t received, and won’t claim, a credit with respect to, or a refund of, the tax
on the taxable fuel to which this form relates.
Under penalties of perjury, Taxpayer declares that Taxpayer has examined this statement, including any accompanying
schedules and statements, and to the best of Taxpayer's knowledge and belief, they're true, correct, and complete.

Signature and date signed

Printed or typed name of person signing this report

Title

46

Chapter 19

Appendix

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Model Certificate C
NOTIFICATION CERTIFICATE OF TAXABLE FUEL REGISTRANT

Name, address, and employer identification number of person receiving certificate
The undersigned taxable registrant (“Registrant”) hereby certifies under penalties of perjury that Registrant is registered
by the Internal Revenue Service with registration number
and that Registrant's registration hasn’t
been revoked or suspended by the Internal Revenue Service.
Registrant understands that the fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Registrant and all parties making such
fraudulent use of this certificate to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
Signature and date signed
Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Name of Registrant
Employer identification number
Address of Registrant

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 19

Appendix

47

Model Certificate D
CERTIFICATE OF PERSON BUYING GASOLINE BLENDSTOCKS FOR USE OTHER THAN IN THE PRODUCTION OF
FINISHED GASOLINE
(To support tax-free sales (other than LUST) under section 4081 of the Internal Revenue Code.)

Name, address, and employer identification number of seller
The undersigned buyer (“Buyer”) hereby certifies the following under penalties of perjury:
The gasoline blendstocks to which this certificate relates won’t be used to produce finished gasoline.
This certificate applies to the following (complete as applicable):
If this is a single purchase certificate, check here

and enter:

1. Invoice or delivery ticket number
2.

(number of gallons) of

(type of gasoline blendstocks)

If this is a certificate covering all purchases under a specified account or order number, check here

and enter:

1. Effective date
2. Expiration date
(period not to exceed 1 year after the effective date)
3. Type (or types) of gasoline blendstocks
4. Buyer's account or order number
Buyer won’t claim a credit or refund under section 6427(h) of the Internal Revenue Code for any gasoline blendstocks
covered by this certificate.
Buyer will provide a new certificate to the seller if any information in this certificate changes.
If Buyer resells the gasoline blendstocks to which this certificate relates, Buyer will be liable for tax unless Buyer obtains a
certificate from the purchaser stating that the gasoline blendstocks won’t be used to produce finished gasoline and otherwise
complies with the conditions of §48.4081-4(b)(3) of the Manufacturers and Retailers Excise Tax Regulations.
Buyer understands that if Buyer violates the terms of this certificate, the Internal Revenue Service may withdraw Buyer's
right to provide a certificate.
Buyer hasn’t been notified by the Internal Revenue Service that its right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn.
In addition, the Internal Revenue Service hasn’t notified Buyer that the right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn from a
purchaser to which Buyer sells gasoline blendstocks tax free.
Buyer understands that the fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Buyer and all parties making such fraudulent use
of this certificate to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
Signature and date signed
Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Name of Buyer
Employer identification number
Address of Buyer

48

Chapter 19

Appendix

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Model Certificate G
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTERED FEEDSTOCK USER
(To support tax-free removals and entries (other than LUST) of kerosene under section 4082 of the Internal Revenue
Code.)
(Buyer) certifies the following under penalties of perjury:

Name of buyer

Buyer is a registered feedstock user with registration number
or suspended.

. Buyer's registration hasn’t been revoked

The kerosene to which this certificate applies will be used by Buyer for a feedstock purpose.
This certificate applies to
percent of Buyer's purchases from
identification number of seller) as follows (complete as applicable):
1. A single purchase on invoice or delivery ticket number

(name, address, and employer

.

2. All purchases between
(effective date) and
(expiration date) (period not to exceed
one year after the effective date) under account or order number(s)
. If this certificate applies only to Buyer's
purchases for certain locations, check here
and list the locations.

If Buyer sells the kerosene to which this certificate relates, Buyer will be liable for tax on that sale.
Buyer will provide a new certificate to the seller if any information in this certificate changes.
If Buyer violates the terms of this certificate, the Internal Revenue Service may revoke the Buyer's registration.
Buyer understands that the fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Buyer and all parties making any fraudulent use of
this certificate to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Employer identification number
Address of Buyer
Signature and date signed

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 19

Appendix

49

Model Certificate J
CERTIFICATE OF PERSON BUYING COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS (CNG) FOR A NONTAXABLE USE
(To support tax-free sales of CNG under section 4041 of the Internal Revenue Code.)

Name, address, and employer identification number of seller
(“Buyer”) certifies the following under penalties of perjury:

Name of buyer

The CNG to which this certificate relates will be used in a nontaxable use.
This certificate applies to the following (complete as applicable):
If this is a single purchase certificate, check here

and enter:

1. Invoice or delivery ticket number
2.

(Gasoline gallon equivalents)

If this is a certificate covering all purchases under a specified account or order number, check here

and enter:

1. Effective date
2. Expiration date
(period not to exceed 1 year after the effective date)
3. Buyer's account or order number
Buyer won’t claim a credit or refund under section 6427 of the Internal Revenue Code for any CNG to which this certificate
relates.
Buyer will provide a new certificate to the seller if any information in this certificate changes.
Buyer understands that if Buyer violates the terms of this certificate, the Internal Revenue Service may withdraw Buyer's
right to provide a certificate.
Buyer hasn’t been notified by the Internal Revenue Service that its right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn.
In addition, the Internal Revenue Service hasn’t notified Buyer that the right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn
from a purchaser to which Buyer sells CNG tax free.
Buyer understands that the fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Buyer and all parties making any fraudulent use
of this certificate to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Employer identification number
Address of Buyer
Signature and date signed

50

Chapter 19

Appendix

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Model Certificate K
CERTIFICATE OF PERSON BUYING KEROSENE FOR USE IN AVIATION FOR
COMMERCIAL AVIATION OR NONTAXABLE USE
(To support operator liability for tax on removals of kerosene for use in aviation directly into the fuel tank of an
aircraft in commercial aviation pursuant to § 4081 of the Internal Revenue Code or to support a tax rate of zero
under § 4041(c) pursuant to §§4041(c) and 4082.)
Name, address, and employer identification number of position holder
The undersigned aircraft operator (“Buyer”) hereby certifies the following under the penalties of perjury:
The kerosene for use in aviation to which this certificate relates is purchased (check one):
for
use on a farm for farming purposes;
for use in foreign trade (reciprocal benefits required for foreign registered airlines);
for use in certain helicopter and fixed-wing air ambulance uses;
for use other than as a fuel in the propulsion engine
of an aircraft;
for the exclusive use of a qualified blood collector organization;
for the exclusive use of a nonprofit
educational organization;
for the exclusive use of a state;
for use in an aircraft owned by an aircraft museum;
for
use in military aircraft; or
for use in commercial aviation (other than foreign trade).
With respect to kerosene for use in aviation purchased after June 30, 2005, for use in commercial aviation
(other than foreign trade), Buyer's registration number is
. Buyer's registration hasn’t been suspended or revoked by
the Internal Revenue Service.
This certificate applies to the following (complete as applicable):
This is a single purchase certificate:
1.

Invoice or delivery ticket number

2.

Number of gallons

This is a certificate covering all purchases under a specified account or order number:
1. Effective date
2. Expiration date

(period not to exceed 1 year after the effective date)

3. Buyer's account number
Buyer agrees to provide the person liable for tax with a new certificate if any information in this certificate changes.
If the kerosene for use in aviation to which this certificate relates is being bought for use in commercial aviation
(other than foreign trade), Buyer is liable for tax on its use of the fuel and will pay that tax to the government.
If Buyer sells or uses the kerosene for use in aviation to which this certificate relates for a use other than the use
stated above, Buyer will be liable for tax.
Buyer understands that it must be prepared to establish by satisfactory evidence the purpose for which the
fuel purchased under this certificate was used.
Buyer hasn’t been notified by the Internal Revenue Service that its right to provide a certificate has been withdrawn.
If Buyer violates the terms of this certificate, the Internal Revenue Service may withdraw Buyer's right to provide a certificate.
The fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Buyer and all parties making any fraudulent use of this certificate
to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Name of Buyer
Employer identification number
Address of Buyer
Signature and date signed

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 19

Appendix

51

Model Waiver L
WAIVER FOR USE BY ULTIMATE PURCHASERS OF KEROSENE FOR CERTAIN USES IN AVIATION
(To support vendor's claim for a credit or payment under § 6427(l)(4)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code.)

Name, address, and employer identification number of ultimate vendor
The undersigned ultimate purchaser (“Buyer”) hereby certifies the following under penalties of perjury:
A.

B.

The kerosene to which this waiver relates is purchased for — (check one):
1.

Use on a farm for farming purposes,

2.

Use in foreign trade (reciprocal benefits required for foreign registered airlines),

3.

Use in certain helicopter and fixed-wing air ambulance uses,

4.

The exclusive use of a qualified blood collector organization,

5.

The exclusive use of a nonprofit educational organization,

6.

Use in an aircraft owned by an aircraft museum,

7.

Use in military aircraft, or

8.

Use in commercial aviation (other than foreign trade).

This waiver applies to the following (complete as applicable):
This is a single purchase waiver:
1.

Invoice or delivery ticket number

2.

Number of gallons

This is a waiver covering all purchases under a specified account or order number:
1. Effective date
2. Expiration date

(period not to exceed 1 year after the effective date)

3. Buyer's account number
Buyer will provide a new waiver to the vendor if any information in this waiver changes.
If Buyer uses the kerosene for use in aviation to which this waiver relates for a use other than the use stated above, Buyer will be liable for
tax.
Buyer understands that by signing this waiver, Buyer gives up its right to claim any credit or payment for the kerosene for use in aviation
used in a nontaxable use.
Buyer acknowledges that it hasn’t and won’t claim any credit or payment for the kerosene for use in aviation to which this waiver relates.
Buyer understands that the fraudulent use of this waiver may subject Buyer and all parties making such fraudulent use of this waiver to a
fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Name of Buyer
Employer identification number
Address of Buyer
Signature and date signed

52

Chapter 19

Appendix

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Model Certificate M
CERTIFICATE FOR STATE USE OR NONPROFIT EDUCATIONAL
ORGANIZATION USE
(To support vendor's claim for a credit or payment under § 6416(a)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code.)

Name, address, and employer identification number of ultimate vendor
The undersigned ultimate purchaser (“Buyer”) hereby certifies the following under the penalties of perjury:
Buyer will use the gasoline or aviation gasoline to which this certificate relates (check one):
For the exclusive use of a state or local government; or
For the exclusive use of a nonprofit educational organization.
This certificate applies to the following (complete as applicable):
This is a single purchase certificate:
1.

Invoice or delivery ticket number

2.

Number of gallons

This is a certificate covering all purchases under a specified account or order number:
1. Effective date
2. Expiration date

(period not to exceed 1 year after the effective date)

3. Buyer's account number
Buyer will provide a new certificate to the vendor if any information in this certificate changes.
Buyer understands that by signing this certificate, Buyer gives up its right to claim any credit or payment for
the gasoline or aviation gasoline to which this certificate relates.
Buyer acknowledges that it hasn’t and won’t claim any credit or payment for the gasoline or aviation gasoline
to which this certificate relates.
Buyer understands that the fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Buyer and all parties making such
fraudulent use of this certificate to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Name of Buyer
Employer identification number
Address of Buyer
Signature and date signed

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 19

Appendix

53

Model Waiver N
WAIVER FOR USE BY ULTIMATE PURCHASERS OF DIESEL FUEL OR
KEROSENE USED IN INTERCITY BUS TRANSPORTATION
(To support vendor's claim for a credit or payment under § 6427 of the Internal Revenue Code.)

Name, address, and employer identification number of ultimate vendor
The undersigned ultimate purchaser (“Buyer”) hereby certifies the following under the penalties of perjury:
The diesel fuel or kerosene to which this waiver relates is purchased for use in intercity bus transportation.
This waiver applies to the following (complete as applicable):
This is a single purchase waiver:
1.

Invoice or delivery ticket number

2.

Number of gallons

This is a waiver covering all purchases under a specified account or order number:
1. Effective date
2. Expiration date

(period not to exceed 1 year after the effective date)

3. Buyer's account number
Buyer will provide a new waiver to the vendor if any information in this waiver changes.
If Buyer uses the diesel fuel or kerosene to which this waiver relates for a use other than in intercity bus
transportation, Buyer will be liable for tax.
Buyer understands that by signing this waiver, Buyer gives up its right to claim any credit or payment for the
diesel fuel or kerosene used in intercity bus transportation.
Buyer acknowledges that it hasn’t and won’t claim any credit or payment for the diesel fuel or kerosene to
which this waiver relates.
Buyer understands that the fraudulent use of this waiver may subject Buyer and all parties making such
fraudulent use of this waiver to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Name of Buyer
Employer identification number
Address of Buyer
Signature and date signed

54

Chapter 19

Appendix

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Model Certificate O
CERTIFICATE FOR BIODIESEL
Certificate Identification Number:
(To support a claim related to biodiesel or a biodiesel mixture under § 6426 of the Internal Revenue Code.)
The undersigned biodiesel producer (“Producer”) hereby certifies the following under penalties of perjury:
1.

Producer's name, address, and employer identification number (EIN)
2.

Name, address, and EIN of person buying the biodiesel from Producer
3.

Date and location of sale to buyer

4. This certificate applies to

gallons of biodiesel.

5. Producer certifies that the biodiesel to which this certificate relates is:
%
%

Agri-biodiesel (derived solely from virgin oils)
Biodiesel other than agri-biodiesel

This certificate applies to the following sale:
Invoice or delivery ticket number
Total number of gallons of biodiesel sold under that invoice or delivery ticket number (including biodiesel not
covered by this certificate)
Total number of certificates issued for that invoice or delivery ticket number
6.

Name, address, and employer identification number of reseller to whom certificate is issued (only in the case of certificates
reissued to a reseller after the return of the original certificate)
7.

Original Certificate Identification Number (only in the case of certificates reissued to a reseller after return of the
original certificate).
Producer is registered as a biodiesel producer with registration number
.
Producer's registration hasn’t been suspended or revoked by the Internal Revenue Service.
Producer certifies that the biodiesel to which this certificate relates in monoalkyl esters of long chain fatty acids derived
from plant or animal matter that meets the requirements of the American Society of Testing and Materials D6751 and
the registration requirements for fuels and fuel additives established by EPA under section 211 of the Clean Air Act (42
U.S.C. 7545).
Producer understands that the fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Producer and all parties making any
fraudulent use of this certificate to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.

Printed or typed name of person signing this certificate

Title of person signing

Signature and date signed
Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 19

Appendix

55

Model Certificate P
CERTIFICATE OF STATE USE
(To support vendor's claim for credit or payment under § 6427 of the Internal Revenue Code.)

Name, address, and employer identification number of vendor
The undersigned buyer (“Buyer”) hereby certifies the following under penalties of perjury:
A. Buyer will use the diesel fuel or kerosene to which this certificate relates for the exclusive use of a state or local
government, or the District of Columbia.
B. This certificate applies to the following (complete as applicable):
1.

2.

If this is a single purchase certificate, check here
a.

Invoice or delivery ticket number

b.

Number of gallons

and enter:

If this is a certificate covering all purchases under a specified account or order number, check here
and enter:
a.

Effective date

b.

Expiration date
(period not to exceed 1 year after effective date)

c.

Buyer's account or order number

▪

Buyer will provide a new certificate to the vendor if any information in this certificate changes.

▪

If Buyer uses the diesel fuel or kerosene to which this certificate relates for a purpose other than stated in the
certificate, Buyer will be liable for any tax.

▪

Buyer acknowledges that it hasn’t and won’t claim any credit or payment for the diesel fuel or kerosene to which
this certificate relates.

▪

Buyer understands that the fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Buyer and all parties making such
fraudulent use of this certificate to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.

Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Name of Buyer
Employer identification number
Address of Buyer
Signature and date signed

56

Chapter 19

Appendix

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Model Certificate Q
CERTIFICATE OF ULTIMATE PURCHASER OF KEROSENE FOR USE IN NONEXEMPT, NONCOMMERCIAL AVIATION
(To support vendor's claim for credit or payment under § 6427(l)(4)(C)(ii) of the Internal Revenue Code.)

Name, address, and employer identification number of ultimate vendor
The undersigned ultimate purchaser (“Buyer”) hereby certifies the following under penalties of perjury:
A. The kerosene to which this certificate relates is purchased for a nonexempt use in noncommercial aviation.
B. This certificate applies to the following (complete as applicable):
1.

If this is a single purchase certificate, check here

and enter:

a. Invoice or delivery
ticket number
b. Number of gallons
2.

This is a certificate covering all purchases under a specified account or order number:
a. Effective date
b. Expiration date
(period not to exceed
1 year after effective
date)
c. Buyer's account
number

▪ Buyer will provide a new certificate to the vendor if any information in this certificate changes.
▪ If Buyer uses the kerosene to which this certificate relates for a use other than the nontaxable use stated above, Buyer will be liable
for tax.
▪ Buyer understands that the fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Buyer and all parties making such fraudulent use of this
certificate to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Name of Buyer
Employer identification number
Address of Buyer
Signature and date signed

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 19

Appendix

57

Model Certificate R
CERTIFICATE OF BUYER OF TAXABLE FUEL FOR USE BY A STATE OR NONPROFIT EDUCATIONAL
ORGANIZATION
(To support credit card issuer's claim for credit, refund, or payment under § 6416(a)(4)(B) or § 6427(l)(5)(D) of the
Internal Revenue Code.)

Name, address, and employer identification number of credit card issuer.
The undersigned ultimate purchaser (“Buyer”) hereby certifies the following under penalties of perjury:
A.Buyer will use the taxable fuel to which this certificate relates for the exclusive use of a state; or
B.Buyer will use the gasoline to which this certificate relates for the exclusive use of a nonprofit educational
organization.
C.This certificate applies to all purchases made with the credit card identified below during the period specified:
a. Effective date of certificate
b. Expiration date of certificate
(period not to exceed 2
years after effective date)
c. Buyer's account number
▪ Buyer will provide a new certificate to the credit card issuer if any information in this certificate changes.
▪ Buyer understands that by signing this certificate, Buyer gives up its right to claim a credit or payment for the
purchased with the credit card to which this certificate relates.
▪ Buyer acknowledges that it hasn’t and won’t claim any credit or payment for the taxable fuel purchased with
the credit card to which this certificate relates.
▪ Buyer understands that the fraudulent use of this certificate may subject Buyer and all parties making such
fraudulent use of this certificate to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
Printed or typed name of person signing
Title of person signing
Name of Buyer
Employer identification number
Address of Buyer
Signature and date signed

58

Chapter 19

Appendix

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Model Statement S
STATEMENT OF BIODIESEL RESELLER
(To support a claim related to biodiesel or a biodiesel mixture under § 6426 of the Internal Revenue Code.)
The undersigned biodiesel producer (“Reseller”) hereby certifies the following under penalties of perjury:
1.

Reseller's name, address, and employer identification number (EIN)
2.

Name, address, and EIN of Reseller's buyer
3.

Date and location of sale to buyer

4. Volume of biodiesel sold
5. Certificate Identification Number on the Certificate for Biodiesel
Reseller has bought the biodiesel described in the accompanying Certificate for Biodiesel and Reseller has no reason
to believe that any information in the certificate is false.
Reseller hasn’t been notified by the Internal Revenue Service that its right to provide a certificate or statement has been
withdrawn.
Reseller understands that the fraudulent use of this statement may subject Reseller and all parties making any
fraudulent use of this statement to a fine or imprisonment, or both, together with the costs of prosecution.

Printed or typed name of person signing this certificate

Title of person signing

Signature and date signed

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Chapter 19

Appendix

59

Model Certificate T
CERTIFICATE TO SUPPORT NONTAXABLE SALE OF ARTICLES LISTED IN § 4051 FOR RESALE OR LONG-TERM LEASE
I hereby certify that I am______________________________(Title) of ______________________, (Name of purchaser) that I am
authorized to execute this certificate, and that:
The undersigned buyer of articles listed in section 4051 ("Buyer") hereby certifies the following under penalties of perjury:
(Check appropriate line)
___ the article or articles specified in the accompanying order, or on the reverse side hereof, (or)
___ all orders placed by the purchaser for the period commencing ___________ (Date) (period not to exceed 12 calendar
quarters), are purchased either for resale or for lease on a long-term basis.
I have filed Form 637 and have received registration number____________.
I understand that the fraudulent use of this certificate to secure exemption will subject me and all parties making such fraudulent use
to a fine of not more than $10,000, or to imprisonment for not more than 5 years, or both, together with costs of prosecution.
Printed or typed name of person signing this certificate
Title of person signing
Signature and date signed

60

Chapter 19

Appendix

Publication 510 (12-2025)

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A
Affiliated corporations 29
Agri-biodiesel, defined 4
Air transportation taxes 27
225-mile-zone rule 28
Aircraft management
services 30
Alaska 28, 29
Baggage 29
Bonus tickets 29
Credits or refunds 30
Exemptions 28
Export 29
Fixed-wing aircraft 29
Hawaii 28, 29
Helicopters 29
International air travel
facilities 29
Military personnel 28
Package tours 28
Persons by air 28
Persons liable 28, 29
Property by air 29
Tax rates 28
Taxable transportation 28
Travel agency 28
Uninterrupted international 28
Aircraft 20
Affiliated corporations 29
Small planes 29
Aircraft museum 20
Alaska:
Air transportation taxes 28
Tax on diesel fuel or kerosene 9
Alcohol and tobacco taxes 3
Alternative fuel, defined 4
American Red Cross 27
Answering service 27
Appeal procedures 42
Approved refinery, defined 4
Approved terminal, defined 4
Arrow shafts 32
Assistance (See Tax help)
Aviation gasoline, defined 5

B
Back-up tax 10
Biodiesel, defined 4
Blended taxable fuel, defined 4
Blender, defined 4
Blocked pump 15
Blood collector organizations,
qualified 20, 27
Boats 19
Bonus tickets 29
Bows, Quivers, Broadheads, and
Points 32
Bulk transfer, defined 4
Bulk transfer/terminal system,
defined 4
Buses 19
Tire tax 33

C
Chemicals, ozone-depleting 24
Claims:
Claiming a credit 22
Publication 510 (12-2025)

Claiming a refund 22
Filing claims 20
Coal:
Blending 33
Exemptions 33
Producer 32
Production 32
Selling price 33
Tax rates 32
Coin-operated telephones 27
Comments 3
Commercial aviation 20
Commercial fishing 19
Commercial waterway
transportation 13
Communications taxes:
Credits or refunds 27
Exemptions 26
Figuring the tax 26
Local telephone service 26
Local-only service 26
Private communication
service 26
Teletypewriter exchange
service 26
Credit card purchases:
Aviation gasoline 15
Gasoline 15
Kerosene for use in aviation 17
Undyed diesel fuel 15
Undyed kerosene 15
Credit or refund:
Gas guzzler tax 34
Manufacturers taxes 31
Resale of tax-paid
semitrailers 36
Retail tax 37
Tire tax 33
Vaccines 34
Credits 22

D

Coin-operated telephones 27
Installation charges 27
International organizations 27
Mobile radio telephone
service 27
News services 27
Nonprofit educational
organizations 27
Nonprofit hospitals 27
Private communication
service 26
Qualified blood collector
organizations 27
Radio broadcasts 27
Security systems 27
Exempt sales, heavy trucks 37
Exemptions:
Air transportation taxes 28
Bonus tickets 29
Coal 33
Communications taxes 26
Federal government 27
Fixed-wing aircraft 29
For export 31
Further manufacturing 31
Helicopters 29
Indian handicrafts 31
Indian tribal governments 27
Military personnel 28
Nonprofit educational
organizations 27, 31
Qualified blood collector
organizations 31
State and local governments 27,
31
Taxable tires 33
Vessel supplies 31
Export 19
Exported taxable fuel 14

F

Farming 18
Federal government 27
Deposits:
Fishing 19
Net tax liability 41
Fishing rods and fishing
Deposits, How to make 40
poles. 32
Diesel fuel:
Fishing tackle boxes 32
Definitions 7
Fixed-wing aircraft 29
Exported 7
Floor stocks tax:
Diesel-water fuel emulsion,
Ozone-depleting chemicals 26
defined 4
Floor stocks, ODCs 24
Dyed diesel fuel 9
Foreign trade 19
Dyed kerosene 9
Form:
1363 29
E
4136 22
Electric outboard motors 32
6197 33, 34, 40
Enterer, defined 4
6627 24, 40
Entry, defined 4
720 22, 34, 39, 40
Environmental taxes:
720-X 40
Credit or refund 25
7208 39, 40
Exceptions 25
8849 22
Ozone-depleting chemicals
8864 14
(ODCs) 24
Form 720:
United States (defined) 24
Attachments 40
Examination procedures 42
Due dates 40
Exempt articles, retail tax 37
Final return 40
Exempt communication services:
Schedule A 40
American Red Cross 27
Schedule C 40
Answering service 27
Schedule T 40

Free tax services 42
Fuels:
Alternative fuel 12
Diesel 7
Diesel-water fuel emulsion 10
For use in aviation 10
Gasoline 5
Kerosene 7
Other fuels 12

G
Gambling 38
Gas guzzler tax:
Automobiles 33
Credit or refund 34
Limousines 33
Vehicles not subject to tax 34
Gasoline blendstocks 6
Gasoline, defined 5

H
Hawaii, air transportation
taxes 28
Heavy Motor Vehicle User Fee 3
Heavy trucks:
First retail sale, defined 35
Further manufacture 37
Installment sales 37
Parts or accessories 35
Presumptive retail sales price 36
Related persons 36
Separate purchases 35
Tax base 36
Tax rate 34
Helicopter 20
Help (See Tax help)
Highway vehicle 18, 20
Highway vehicle
(Diesel-powered) 7

I
Identifying number 21
Imported taxable products
(ODCs) 25
Indoor tanning services 39
Information returns, liquid
products 5
Inland and intracoasal
waterways 13
Intercity and local buses 19
Interest and penalties 42
International air travel
facilities 29

K
Kerosene:
Definitions 7
Exported 7
For use in aviation 10

L
Liquid products, information
returns 5
Local telephone service 26
Local-only service 26

61

Payment of taxes 40
Penalties:
Dyed diesel fuel 9
Manufacturer, defined 30
Dyed kerosene 9
Manufacturers taxes:
Pipeline operator, defined 4
Arrow shafts 32
Position holder, defined 4
Bows, Quivers, Broadheads, and
Publications (See Tax help)
Points 32

M

Coal 32
Credits or refunds 31
Exemptions 31
Gas guzzler tax 33
Lease 30
Lease payments 31
Partial payments 31
Registration 31
Related person 32
Requirements for exempt
sales 31
Sale 30
Sport fishing equipment 32
Taxable Tires 33
Vaccines 34
Military aircraft 20
Mobile radio telephone
service 27

N
News services 27
Nonprofit educational
organization 20
Nonprofit educational
organization use and state
use 21
Nonprofit educational
organizations 27
Nontaxable uses, definitions 18
Nontaxable uses, type of use
table 18

Q
Qualified local bus 19

R
Rack, defined 4
Radio broadcasts 27
Refiner, defined 4
Refinery, defined 4
Refunds 22
Refunds of second tax 17
Registered ultimate vendor 15,
21
Registrant 5
Registration 5
Registration-required
obligations 38
Related persons:
Heavy trucks 36
Sport fishing equipment 32
Removal, defined 4
Repurchase of corporate
stock 39
Retail tax:
Credits or refunds 37
Heavy trucks 34
Rulings Program 42
Rural airports 28

S

Sale, defined 4
O
Sales by registered ultimate
vendors, gasoline 14
Obligations not in registered
Sales by registered ultimate
form 38
vendors, kerosene for use in
Off-highway use 18
aviation 16
Other fuels (Including Alternative
Sales price:
fuels) 12
Bonus goods 30
Other fuels, defined 4
Cost of transportation 30
Ozone-depleting chemicals:
Delivery costs 30
Floor stocks tax 26
Discounts 30
Imported taxable products 25
Installation costs 30
Insurance costs 30
P
Local advertising charges 30
Patient-centered outcomes
Manufacturers excise tax 30
research fee 39

62

Rebates 30
Retail dealer preparation
costs 30
Warranty charges 30
School bus 19
Second generation biofuel 4
Security systems 27
Ship passenger tax 37
Special September rule, When to
deposit 41
Sport fishing equipment:
List of equipment 32
Resales 32
State and local governments 27
State or local governments 20
State or nonprofit educational
organization use 14
State use 15, 21
State, defined 5
Suggestions 3

T
Tanning tax 39
Tax help 42
Tax on Petroleum 24
Tax rate 32
Air transportation of persons 28
Air transportation of property 29
Arrow shafts 32
Bows, Quivers, Broadheads, and
Points 32
Coal 32
Electric outboard motor 32
International air travel
facilities 29
Obligations not in registered
form 38
Policies issued by foreign
persons 38
Ship passenger tax 37
Sport fishing equipment 32
Trucks 34
Taxable fuel registrant 5
Taxable tires:
Exemptions 33
Taxable Tires:
Manufacturers taxes 33
Taxes, Payment of 40
Taxpayer identification
number 21
Teletypewriter exchange
service 26
Terminal operator, defined 5
Terminal, defined 5

Throughputter, defined 5
Tires:
Credit against heavy truck
tax 37
Credit or refund of tax 33
Train 20
Train (Diesel-powered) 7
Travel agency 28
TTY/TDD information 42
Two-party exchanges 5, 8

U
Ultimate purchaser 20
Uninterrupted international air
transportation 28
Used other than as a fuel:
Diesel fuel and kerosene 19
Uses, nontaxable:
Alternative fuels 17
Aviation gasoline 14
Diesel fuel 15
Diesel-water fuel emulsion 15
Gasoline 14
Kerosene 15
Liquefied petroleum gas
(LPG) 17
Other fuels 17

V
Vaccines:
Credit or refund 34
Manufacturers tax 34
Vehicles:
Gas guzzler 33
Imported 34
Law enforcement 34
Vendors, registered ultimate 15,
21
Vessel operator, defined 5

W
Wagering and occupational
wagering fee 3
When to deposit 41

Publication 510 (12-2025)

