Contents
What's New . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Publication 560

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Retirement
Plans
for Small
Business

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

(SEP, SIMPLE, and
Qualified Plans)
For use in preparing

2025 Returns

Chapter 1. Definitions You Need To Know . . . . . . . 6
Chapter 2. Simplified Employee
Pensions (SEPs) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Setting up a SEP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
How Much Can I Contribute? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Deducting Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Salary Reduction Simplified Employee
Pensions (SARSEPs) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Distributions (Withdrawals) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Additional Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Reporting and Disclosure Requirements . . . . . . . 13
Chapter 3. SIMPLE Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
SIMPLE IRA Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
SIMPLE 401(k) Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Chapter 4. Qualified Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Kinds of Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Qualification Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Setting up a Qualified Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Minimum Funding Requirement . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Employer Deduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Elective Deferrals (401(k) Plans) . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Qualified Roth Contribution Program . . . . . . . . . 29
Distributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Prohibited Transactions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Reporting Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Chapter 5. Table and Worksheets for the
Self-Employed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Chapter 6. How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 560, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub560.

What's New
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:

• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español) • IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Feb 18, 2026

Automatic enrollment. Section 101 of the SECURE 2.0
Act of 2022 provides that, subject to certain exceptions,
employers with 401(k) plans and 403(b) plans established
on or after December 29, 2022, must automatically enroll
employees who are eligible to participate in such plans,
effective for plan years beginning after 2024.

Publication 560 (2025) Catalog Number 46574N
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

Compensation limits for 2025 and 2026. For 2025, the
maximum compensation used for figuring contributions
and benefits is $350,000. This limit increases to $360,000
for 2026.
Elective deferral limits for 2025 and 2026. The limit on
elective deferrals, other than catch-up contributions, is
$23,500 for 2025 and $24,500 for 2026. These limits apply for participants in SARSEPs, 401(k) plans (excluding
SIMPLE plans), section 403(b) plans, and section 457(b)
plans.
Defined contribution limits for 2025 and 2026. The
limit on contributions, other than catch-up contributions,
for a participant in a defined contribution plan is $70,000
for 2025 and increases to $72,000 for 2026.
Defined benefit limits for 2025 and 2026. The limit on
annual benefits for a participant in a defined benefit plan is
$280,000 for 2025 and increases to $290,000 for 2026.
SIMPLE plan salary reduction contribution limits for
2025 and 2026. The limit on salary reduction contributions, other than catch-up contributions, is $16,500 for
2025 and increases to $17,000 for 2026. Pursuant to section 117 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022, a higher limit
($18,100 for 2025) may apply to participants in certain
SIMPLE plans, effective for tax years beginning after
2023.
Catch-up contribution limits for 2025 and 2026. A
plan can permit participants who are age 50 or over at the
end of the calendar year to make catch-up contributions in
addition to elective deferrals and SIMPLE plan salary reduction contributions. The catch-up contribution limit for
defined contribution plans other than SIMPLE plans is
$7,500 for 2025 and $8,000 for 2026. The catch-up contribution limit for SIMPLE plans is generally $3,500 for 2025
and $4,000 for 2026. Pursuant to section 117(b) of the
SECURE 2.0 Act, a higher catch-up limit ($3,850 for 2025
and 2026) may apply to participants in certain SIMPLE
plans, effective for tax years beginning after 2023.
A participant's catch-up contributions for a year can't
exceed the lesser of the following amounts.

• The catch-up contribution limit.
• The excess of the participant's compensation over the
elective deferrals that aren’t catch-up contributions.

See Catch-up contributions under Contribution Limits and
Limit on Elective Deferrals in chapters 3 and 4, respectively, for more information.
Higher catch-up contribution limit for ages 60 to 63.
Beginning in 2025, section 109 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of
2022 permits a deferred compensation plan (including
most 401(k) and 403(b) plans) to allow participants to
make a higher amount of catch-up contributions in a tax
year in which they attain age 60, 61, 62, or 63. For 2025
and 2026, the higher limit on catch-up contributions for
such participants is $11,250 ($5,250 for SIMPLE plans).
Distributions from Roth accounts. Life-time required
minimum distributions to a participant are no longer required from a designated Roth account in a qualified plan.
Required minimum distributions are required from a designated Roth account in a qualified plan following a
2

participant’s death. For this purpose, a qualified plan includes qualified retirement plans, tax-sheltered annuities
and custodial accounts, retirement income accounts, and
eligible deferred compensation plans under section
457(b).

Reminders
Small employer automatic enrollment credit. The Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, P.L. 116-94,
added section 45T. An eligible employer may claim a tax
credit if it includes an eligible automatic contribution arrangement under a qualified employer plan. The credit
equals $500 per year over a 3-year period beginning with
the first tax year in which it includes the automatic contribution arrangement.
Increase in credit limitation for small employer plan
startup costs. The Further Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2020, P.L. 116-94, amended section 45E. For tax
years beginning after 2019, eligible employers can claim a
tax credit for the first credit year and each of the 2 tax
years immediately following. The credit equals 50% of
qualified startup costs, up to the greater of the limit of (a)
$500; or (b) the lesser of (i) $250 for each employee who
is not a “highly compensated employee” eligible to participate in the employer plan, or (ii) $5,000.
Note: The SECURE 2.0 Act further amended section
45E to increase the credit for tax years beginning after
2022. See What’s New, earlier.
See the instructions for Form 3800 and Form 8881 for
more information on the small employer automatic enrollment credit and the small employer startup cost credit.
Restriction on conditions of participation. Effective
for plan years beginning after 2020, a 401(k) plan can’t require, as a condition of participation, that an employee
complete a period of service that extends beyond the
close of the earlier of (a) 1 year of service, or (b) the first
period of 3 consecutive 12-month periods (excluding
12-month periods beginning before 2021) during each of
which the employee has completed at least 500 hours of
service. Effective for plan years beginning after 2024, 3
consecutive 12-month periods are reduced to 2 consecutive 12-month periods.
Retirement savings contributions credit. Retirement
plan participants (including self-employed individuals)
who make contributions to their plans may qualify for the
retirement savings contributions credit. The maximum
contribution eligible for the credit is $2,000. To take the
credit, use Form 8880, Credit for Qualified Retirement
Savings Contributions. For more information on who is eligible for the credit, retirement plan contributions eligible
for the credit, and how to figure the credit, see Form 8880
and its instructions or go to IRS.gov/Retirement-Plans/
Plan-Participant-Employee/Retirement-SavingsContributions-Savers-Credit.
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children
Publication 560 (2025)

selected by the Center may appear in this publication on
pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.
Plans established after the end of tax year. For 2023
and later years, a sole proprietor with no employees can
adopt a section 401(k) plan after the end of the tax year,
provided the plan is adopted by the tax filing deadline
(without regard to extensions).
Increased small employer pension plan startup cost
credit. The SECURE 2.0 Act of Division T of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2023, P.L. 117-328 (SECURE
2.0 Act), provides that eligible employers with 1–50 employees are eligible for an increased small employer pension plan startup cost credit under section 45E of 100% of
qualified startup costs, subject to the limit described in the
next paragraph. The credit for eligible employers with 51–
100 employees remains at 50% of qualified startup costs,
subject to the same limit. See the instructions for Form
3800 and Form 8881 for more information on the startup
cost credit.
Increase in credit limitation for small employer plan
startup costs. The Further Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2020, P.L. 116-94, amended section 45E. For tax
years beginning 2019, eligible employers can claim a tax
credit for the first credit year and each of the 2 tax years
immediately following. The credit equals 50% of qualified
startup costs, up to the greater of the limit of (a) $500; or
(b) the lesser of (i) $250 for each employee who is not a
“highly compensated employee” eligible to participate in
the employer plan, or (ii) $5,000.
Employer contributions credit. The SECURE 2.0 Act
added an additional startup cost credit under section 45E
available to certain eligible employers, in an amount equal
to an applicable percentage of the employer’s contributions (not including an elective deferral, as defined in section 402(g)(3)) to an eligible employer plan (other than a
defined benefit plan (as described in section 414(j)), subject to limitation. See the instructions for Form 3800 and
Form 8881 for more information on the employer contributions credit.
Small employer military spouse participation credit.
The SECURE 2.0 Act added a new military spouse participation credit under section 45AA available to eligible small
employers who maintain defined contribution plans with
specific features that benefit military spouses. See the instructions for Form 3800 and Form 8881 for more information on the military spouse participation credit.
Designated Roth nonelective contributions and designated Roth matching contributions. The SECURE
2.0 Act of 2022 permits certain nonelective contributions
and matching contributions that are made after 2022, to
be designated as Roth contributions.
Matching contributions on account of qualified student loan payments. Section 110 of the SECURE 2.0
Act of 2022 allows employers to include an optional feature that would enable them to make matching contributions on account of employees' qualified student loan
payments under certain defined contribution retirement
Publication 560 (2025)

plans, including a SIMPLE IRA plan and a SIMPLE 401(k)
plan. Section 110 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 applies
to contributions made for plan years beginning after 2023.
Starter 401(k) deferral-only arrangement. Section
121(a) of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 permits certain eligible employers to have a starter 401(k) deferral-only arrangement for plan years beginning after 2023.
Additional nonelective contributions under a SIMPLE
IRA plan. Section 116 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 allows employers to make additional nonelective contributions under a SIMPLE IRA plan, effective for tax years beginning after 2023.
Midyear replacement of SIMPLE IRA plan with safe
harbor 401(k) plan. Section 332 of the SECURE 2.0 Act
of 2022 allows an employer to replace its SIMPLE IRA
plan with a safe harbor 401(k) plan during a year, effective
for plan years beginning after 2023.
Roth IRAs under a SEP arrangement and Roth SIMPLE IRAs under a SIMPLE IRA plan. Section 601 of the
SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 permits contributions under a
SEP arrangement or a SIMPLE IRA plan to be made to a
Roth IRA, effective for tax years beginning after 2022.
Pension-Linked Emergency Savings Accounts (PLESAs). Section 127 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 allows
employers to add an optional feature to provide short-term
savings accounts established and maintained in connection with a defined contribution retirement plan, and those
savings accounts are treated as a type of designated Roth
account. Section 127 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 provides for the creation of PLESAs effective for plan years
beginning after 2023.

Introduction
This publication discusses retirement plans you can set
up and maintain for yourself and your employees. In this
publication, “you” refers to the employer. See chapter 1 for
the definition of the term “employer” and the definitions of
other terms used in this publication. This publication covers the following types of retirement plans.

• SEP (simplified employee pension) plans.
• SIMPLE (savings incentive match plan for employees)
plans.

• Qualified plans (also called H.R. 10 plans or Keogh
plans when covering self-employed individuals), including 401(k) plans.

SEP, SIMPLE, and qualified plans offer you and your
employees a tax-favored way to save for retirement. You
can deduct contributions you make to the plan for your
employees. If you are a sole proprietor, you can deduct
contributions you make to the plan for yourself. You can
also deduct trustees' fees if contributions to the plan don't
cover them. Earnings on the contributions are generally
tax free until you or your employees receive distributions
from the plan.
Under a 401(k) plan, employees can have you contribute limited amounts of their before-tax (after-tax, in the
3

case of a qualified Roth contribution program) pay to the
plan. These amounts (and the earnings on them) are generally tax free until your employees receive distributions
from the plan or, in the case of a qualified distribution from
a designated Roth account, completely tax free.
What this publication covers. This publication contains
the information you need to understand the following topics.

• What type of plan to set up.
• How to set up a plan.
• How much you can contribute to a plan.
• How much of your contribution is deductible.
• How to treat certain distributions.
• How to report information about the plan to the IRS
and your employees.

• Basic features of SEP, SIMPLE, and qualified plans.
The key rules for SEP, SIMPLE, and qualified plans
are outlined in Table 1.

SEP plans. SEP plans provide a simplified method for
you to make contributions to a retirement plan for yourself
and your employees. Instead of setting up a profit-sharing
or money purchase pension plan with a trust, you can
adopt a SEP agreement and make contributions directly to
a traditional SEP IRA. For tax years beginning after 2022,
section 601 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 provides that
an employer's SEP plan may allow an employee to designate a Roth IRA as the IRA to which contributions under
the SEP plan are made (a Roth SEP IRA).

4

SIMPLE plans. Generally, if you had 100 or fewer employees who received at least $5,000 in compensation last
year, you can set up a SIMPLE IRA plan. Under a SIMPLE
plan, employees can choose to make salary reduction
contributions rather than receiving these amounts as part
of their regular pay. In addition, you will contribute matching or nonelective contributions. You may also make additional nonelective contributions. Contributions under an
employer's SIMPLE IRA plan are made to an employee's
traditional SIMPLE IRA. For tax years beginning after
2022, section 601 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 provides that an employer's SIMPLE IRA plan may allow an
employee to designate that contributions be made to the
employee's Roth SIMPLE IRA. Traditional SIMPLE IRAs
are generally subject to the rules for traditional IRAs and
Roth SIMPLE IRAs are generally subject to the rules for
Roth IRAs; however, both types of SIMPLE IRAs are subject to a number of additional restrictions that do not apply
to traditional IRAs or Roth IRAs. The two types of SIMPLE
plans are the SIMPLE IRA plan and the SIMPLE 401(k)
plan.
Note: See Q&A K-1 through K-8 of Notice 2024-2,
2024-2 I.R.B. 316, at IRS.gov/irb/2024-02, for additional
guidance on Roth SEP IRAs and Roth SIMPLE IRAs.
Qualified plans. The qualified plan rules are more
complex than the SEP plan and SIMPLE plan rules. However, there are advantages to qualified plans, such as
increased flexibility in designing plans and increased contribution and deduction limits in some cases.

Publication 560 (2025)

Table 1. Key Retirement Plan Rules for 2025
Type
of
plan

Last date for contribution

Maximum contribution

Maximum deduction

When to set up plan

Smaller of $70,000 or 25%
of participant's
compensation.2

25% of all participants'
compensation.2

Any time up to the due date of
employer's return (including
extensions).

Same as maximum
contribution.

Any time between January 1
and October 1 of the calendar
year.

SEP

Due date of employer's return
(including extensions).

SIMPLE
IRA
and
SIMPLE
401(k)

Salary reduction contributions: 30
Employee contribution:
days after the end of the month for
Salary reduction contribution
4
which the contributions are to be made. up to $16,500; $20,000 if
age 50 or over (but not
Matching or nonelective
attaining age 60, 61, 62, or
contributions: Due date of employer's 63).
return (including extensions).
Special salary reduction
contribution limits apply for
certain employers and are
subject to a cost-of-living
adjustment.

1

1

For a new employer coming
into existence after October 1,
as soon as administratively
feasible.

Employer contribution:
Either dollar-for-dollar
matching contributions, up to
3% of employee's
compensation,3 or fixed
nonelective contributions of
2% of compensation.2
Higher matching and fixed
nonelective contributions
apply for certain employers
who elect to allow higher
salary reduction
contributions.
Additional nonelective
contributions of a uniform
percentage (up to 10% but
not exceeding $5,100 for
2025) may also be made.
Qualified
Elective deferral: Due date of
Plan:
employer's return (including
Defined
extensions).4
Contribution
Plan
Employer contribution:
Profit-sharing plan: Due date of
employer's return (including
extensions). Money purchase pension
plan: 81/2 months after the end of the
plan year.

Employee contribution:
Elective deferral up to
$23,500; $31,000 if age 50
or over (but not attaining age
60, 61, 62, or 63).

25%1 of all participants'
compensation,2 plus
amount of elective
deferrals made.

By the employer’s tax-filing
due date, including
extensions, for the tax year.

Based on actuarial
assumptions and
computations.

By the employer’s tax filing
due date (although it’s not best
to set up after the minimum
funding due date).

Employer contribution:
Money purchase pension
plan: Smaller of $70,000 or
100%1 of participant's
compensation.2
Profit-sharing plan: Smaller
of $70,000 or 100%1 of
participant's compensation.2

Qualified
Plan:
Defined
Benefit Plan

Contributions must generally be paid in
quarterly installments, due 15 days
after the end of each quarter, with a
final contribution due 81/2 months after
the end of the plan year. See Minimum
Funding Requirement in chapter 4.

Amount needed to provide
an annual benefit no larger
than the smaller of $280,000
or 100% of the participant's
average compensation for
the highest 3 consecutive
calendar years.

Net earnings from self-employment must take the contribution into account. See Deduction Limit for Self-Employed Individuals in chapters 2 and 4.
Compensation is generally limited to $350,000 in 2025.
Under a SIMPLE 401(k) plan, compensation is generally limited to $350,000 in 2025.
4
Certain plans subject to Department of Labor (DOL) rules may have an earlier due date for salary reduction contributions and elective deferrals, such as 401(k)
plans. See the “elective deferral” definition under Definitions You Need To Know, later. Solo/self-employed 401(k) plans are non-ERISA plans and don’t fall under
DOL rules.
1

2

3

What this publication doesn’t cover. Although the purpose of this publication is to provide general information
about retirement plans you can set up for your employees,
it doesn't contain all the rules and exceptions that apply to
these plans. You may need professional help and guidance.
Also, this publication doesn't cover all the rules that
may be of interest to employees. For example, it doesn't
cover the following topics.

• The comprehensive IRA rules an employee needs to

Contributions to Individual Retirement Arrangements
(IRAs); and Pub. 590-B, Distributions from Individual
Retirement Arrangements (IRAs).

• The comprehensive rules that apply to distributions

from retirement plans. These rules are covered in Pub.
575, Pension and Annuity Income.

• The comprehensive rules that apply to section 403(b)

plans. These rules are covered in Pub. 571, Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plans (403(b) Plans) For Employees of

know. These rules are covered in Pub. 590-A,

Publication 560 (2025)

5

Public Schools and Certain Tax-Exempt Organizations.

tribute and under which no rollover contributions are
made.

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and your suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.

Business. A business is an activity in which a profit motive is present and economic activity is involved. Service
as a newspaper carrier under age 18 or as a public official
isn’t a business.

Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year forms and
instructions. The IRS will process your order for forms and
publications as soon as possible. Don’t resubmit requests
you’ve already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.
Tax questions. If you have a tax question not answered by this publication, check IRS.gov and How To Get
Tax Help at the end of this publication.

1.
Definitions You Need To
Know
Certain terms used in this publication are defined below.
The same term used in another publication may have a
slightly different meaning.
Annual additions. Annual additions are the total of all
your contributions in a year, employee contributions (not
including rollovers), and forfeitures allocated to a participant's account.
Annual benefits. Annual benefits are the benefits to be
paid yearly in the form of a straight life annuity (with no extra benefits) under a plan to which employees don't con6

Chapter 1

Common-law employee. A common-law employee is
any individual who, under common law, would have the
status of an employee. A leased employee can also be a
common-law employee.
A common-law employee is a person who performs
services for an employer who has the right to control and
direct the results of the work and the way in which it is
done. For example, the employer:

• Provides the employee's tools, materials, and workplace; and

• Can fire the employee.
Common-law employees aren't self-employed and can't
set up retirement plans for income from their work, even if
that income is self-employment income for social security
tax purposes. For example, common-law employees who
are ministers, members of religious orders, full-time insurance salespeople, and U.S. citizens employed in the United States by foreign governments can't set up retirement
plans for their earnings from those employments, even
though their earnings are treated as self-employment income.
However, an individual may be a common-law employee and a self-employed person as well. For example,
an attorney can be a corporate common-law employee
during regular working hours and also practice law in the
evening as a self-employed person. In another example, a
minister employed by a congregation for a salary is a common-law employee even though the salary is treated as
self-employment income for social security tax purposes.
However, fees reported on Schedule C (Form 1040), Profit
or Loss From Business, for performing marriages, baptisms, and other personal services are self-employment
earnings for qualified plan purposes.
Compensation. Compensation for plan allocations is the
pay a participant received from you for personal services
for a year. You can generally define compensation as including all the following payments.
1. Wages and salaries.
2. Fees for professional services.
3. Other amounts received (cash or noncash) for personal services actually rendered by an employee, including, but not limited to, the following items.
a. Commissions and tips.
b. Fringe benefits.
c. Bonuses.
For a self-employed individual, “compensation” means
the earned income, discussed later, of that individual.

Definitions You Need To Know

Publication 560 (2025)

Compensation generally includes amounts deferred at
the employee's election in the following employee benefit
plans.

• Section 401(k) plans.
• Section 403(b) plans.
• SIMPLE IRA plans.
• SARSEPs.
• Section 457 deferred compensation plans.
• Section 125 cafeteria plans.

Elective deferral. An elective deferral is the contribution
made by employees to a qualified retirement plan.

• Non-owner employees: The employee salary reduc-

tion/elective deferral contributions must be elected/
made by the end of the tax year and deposited into the
employee’s plan account within 7 business days (safe
harbor) and no later than 15 days.

However, an employer can choose to exclude elective
deferrals under the above plans from the definition of compensation. The limit on elective deferrals is discussed in
chapter 2 under Salary Reduction Simplified Employee
Pension (SARSEP) and in chapter 4.
Other options. In figuring the compensation of a participant, you can treat any of the following amounts as the
employee's compensation.

• The employee's wages as defined for income tax withholding purposes.

• The employee's wages you report in box 1 of Form
W-2, Wage and Tax Statement.

• The employee's social security wages (including elective deferrals).

Compensation generally can't include either of the following items.

• Nontaxable reimbursements or other expense allowances.

• Deferred compensation (other than elective deferrals).
SIMPLE plans. A special definition of compensation
applies for SIMPLE plans. See chapter 3.
Contribution. A contribution is an amount you pay into a
plan for all those participating in the plan, including
self-employed individuals. Limits apply to how much, under the contribution formula of the plan, can be contributed each year for a participant.
Deduction. A deduction is the plan contribution you can
subtract from gross income on your federal income tax return. Limits apply to the amount deductible.
Earned income. Earned income is net earnings from
self-employment, discussed later, from a business in
which your services materially helped to produce the income.
You can also have earned income from property your
personal efforts helped create, such as royalties from your
books or inventions. Earned income includes net earnings
from selling or otherwise disposing of the property, but it
doesn't include capital gains. It includes income from licensing the use of property other than goodwill.
Earned income includes amounts received for services
by self-employed members of recognized religious sects
opposed to social security benefits who are exempt from
self-employment tax.
Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 1

If you have more than one business, but only one has a
retirement plan, only the earned income from that business is considered for that plan.

• Owner/employees: The employee deferrals must be

elected by the end of the tax year and can then be
made by the tax return filing deadline, including extensions.

Employer. An employer is generally any person for whom
an individual performs or did perform any service, of whatever nature, as an employee. A sole proprietor is treated
as its own employer for retirement plan purposes. However, a partner isn't an employer for retirement plan purposes. Instead, the partnership is treated as the employer of
each partner.
Highly compensated employee. A highly compensated
employee is an individual who:

• Owned more than 5% of the interest in your business
at any time during the year or the preceding year, regardless of how much compensation that person
earned or received; or

• For the preceding year, received compensation from

you of more than $155,000 (if the preceding year is
2024, and increased to $160,000 for 2025 and 2026),
and, if you so choose, was in the top 20% of employees when ranked by compensation.

Leased employee. A leased employee who isn't your
common-law employee must generally be treated as your
employee for retirement plan purposes if they do all the
following.

• Provides services to you under an agreement between you and a leasing organization.

• Has performed services for you (or for you and related
persons) substantially full time for at least 1 year.

• Performs services under your primary direction or control.

Exception. A leased employee isn't treated as your
employee if all the following conditions are met.
1. Leased employees aren't more than 20% of your
non-highly compensated workforce.
2. The employee is covered under the leasing organization's qualified pension plan.
3. The leasing organization's plan is a money purchase
pension plan that has all the following provisions.
a. Immediate participation. (This requirement doesn't
apply to any individual whose compensation from
the leasing organization in each plan year during

Definitions You Need To Know

7

the 4-year period ending with the plan year is less
than $1,000.)
b. Full and immediate vesting.
c. A nonintegrated employer contribution rate of at
least 10% of compensation for each participant.
However, if the leased employee is your common-law employee, that employee will be your employee for all purposes, regardless of any pension plan of the leasing organization.
Net earnings from self-employment. For SEP and
qualified plans, net earnings from self-employment are
your gross income from your trade or business (provided
your personal services are a material income-producing
factor) minus allowable business deductions. Allowable
deductions include contributions to SEP and qualified
plans for common-law employees and the deduction allowed for the deductible part of your self-employment tax.
Net earnings from self-employment don’t include items
excluded from gross income (or their related deductions)
other than foreign earned income and foreign housing
cost amounts.
For the deduction limits, earned income is net earnings
for personal services actually rendered to the business.
You take into account the income tax deduction for the deductible part of self-employment tax and the deduction for
contributions to the plan made on your behalf when figuring net earnings.
Net earnings include a partner's distributive share of
partnership income or loss (other than separately stated
items, such as capital gains and losses). They don’t include income passed through to shareholders of S corporations. Guaranteed payments to limited partners are net
earnings from self-employment if they are paid for services to or for the partnership. Distributions of other income
or loss to limited partners aren't net earnings from self-employment.
For SIMPLE plans, net earnings from self-employment
are the amount on line 4 of Schedule SE (Form 1040),
Self-Employment Tax, before subtracting any contributions made to the SIMPLE plan for yourself.
Qualified plan. A qualified plan is a retirement plan that
offers a tax-favored way to save for retirement. You can
deduct contributions made to the plan for your employees.
Earnings on these contributions are generally tax free until
distributed at retirement. Profit-sharing, money purchase
pension, and defined benefit plans are qualified plans. A
401(k) plan is also a qualified plan.
Participant. A participant is an eligible employee who is
covered by your retirement plan. See the discussions,
later, of the different types of plans for the definition of an
employee eligible to participate in each type of plan.
Partner. A partner is an individual who shares ownership
of an unincorporated trade or business with one or more
persons. For retirement plans, a partner is treated as an
employee of the partnership.

Self-employed individual. An individual in business for
himself or herself, and whose business isn't incorporated,
is self-employed. Sole proprietors and partners are
self-employed. Self-employment can include part-time
work.
Not everyone who has net earnings from self-employment for social security tax purposes is self-employed for
qualified plan purposes. See Common-law employee and
Net earnings from self-employment, earlier.
In addition, certain fishermen may be considered
self-employed for setting up a qualified plan. See Pub.
595, Capital Construction Fund for Commercial Fishermen, for the special rules used to determine whether fishermen are self-employed.
Sole proprietor. A sole proprietor is an individual who
owns an unincorporated business alone, including a single-member limited liability company that is treated as a
disregarded entity for tax purposes. For retirement plans,
a sole proprietor is treated as both an employer and an
employee.

2.
Simplified Employee
Pensions (SEPs)
Topics

This chapter discusses:

• Setting up a SEP
• How much can I contribute
• Deducting contributions
• Salary reduction simplified employee pensions (SARSEPs)

• Distributions (withdrawals)
• Additional taxes
• Reporting and disclosure requirements
Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publications
590-A Contributions to Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
590-A

590-B Distributions from Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
590-B

3998 Choosing a Retirement Solution for Your Small
Business
3998

4285 SEP Checklist
4285

8

Chapter 2

Simplified Employee Pensions (SEPs)

Publication 560 (2025)

4286 SARSEP Checklist
4286

4333 SEP Retirement Plans for Small Businesses
4333

4336 SARSEP for Small Businesses
4336

4407 SARSEP—Key Issues and Assistance
4407

Forms (and Instructions)
W-2 Wage and Tax Statement

Setting up a SEP
There are three basic steps in setting up a SEP.
1. You must execute a formal written agreement to provide benefits to all eligible employees.
2. You must give each eligible employee certain information about the SEP.

W-2

1040 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
1040

1040-SR U.S. Tax Return for Seniors
1040-SR

5305-SEP Simplified Employee Pension—Individual
Retirement Accounts Contribution Agreement

3. A SEP IRA must be set up by or for each eligible employee.

5305-SEP

5305A-SEP Salary Reduction Simplified Employee
Pension—Individual Retirement Accounts
Contribution Agreement
5305A-SEP

8880 Credit for Qualified Retirement Savings
Contributions
8880

8881 Credit for Small Employer Pension Plan
Startup Costs
8881

A SEP is a written plan that allows you to make contributions toward your own retirement and your employees' retirement without getting involved in a more complex qualified plan.
Under a SEP, you make contributions to an individual retirement arrangement (called a SEP IRA) set up by or for
each eligible employee. A SEP IRA may either be a traditional IRA (a traditional SEP IRA) or a Roth IRA (a Roth
SEP IRA). A SEP IRA is owned and controlled by the employee, and you make contributions to the financial institution where the SEP IRA is maintained.

Tip: Many financial institutions will help you set up a SEP.
Formal written agreement. You must execute a formal
written agreement to provide benefits to all eligible employees under a SEP. You can satisfy the written agreement requirement by adopting an IRS model SEP using
Form 5305-SEP. However, see When not to use Form
5305-SEP, later.
If you adopt an IRS model SEP using Form 5305-SEP,
no prior IRS approval or determination letter is required.
Keep the original form. Don't file it with the IRS. Also, using Form 5305-SEP will usually relieve you from filing annual retirement plan information returns with the IRS and
the DOL. See the Form 5305-SEP instructions for details.
If you choose not to use Form 5305-SEP, you should seek
professional advice in adopting a SEP.
When not to use Form 5305-SEP. You can't use
Form 5305-SEP if any of the following apply.
1. You currently maintain any other qualified retirement
plan other than another SEP.

SEP IRAs are set up for, at a minimum, each eligible employee (defined below). A SEP IRA may have to be set up
for a leased employee (defined in chapter 1), but doesn't
need to be set up for excludable employees (defined
later).

2. You have any eligible employees for whom IRAs
haven’t been set up.

Eligible employee. An eligible employee is an individual
who meets all the following requirements.

4. You are a member of any of the following unless all eligible employees of all the members of these groups,
trades, or businesses participate under the SEP.

• Has reached age 21.
• Has worked for you in at least 3 of the last 5 years.
• Has received at least $750 in compensation from you
in 2025. The amount is $800 for 2026.

Tip: You can use less restrictive participation requirements than those listed, but not more restrictive ones.
Excludable employees. The following employees can
be excluded from coverage under a SEP.

• Employees covered by a union agreement and whose

retirement benefits were bargained for in good faith by
the employees' union and you.

• Nonresident alien employees who have received no

U.S. source wages, salaries, or other personal services compensation from you. For more information
about nonresident aliens, see Pub. 519, U.S. Tax
Guide for Aliens.

Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 2

3. You use the services of leased employees, who aren't
your common-law employees (as described in chapter 1).

a. An affiliated service group described in section
414(m).
b. A controlled group of corporations described in
section 414(b).
c. Trades or businesses under common control described in section 414(c).
5. You don't pay the cost of the SEP contributions.
Information you must give to employees. You must
give each eligible employee a copy of Form 5305-SEP, its
instructions, and the other information listed in the Form
5305-SEP instructions. An IRS model SEP isn't considered adopted until you give each employee this information.
Setting up the employee's SEP IRA. A SEP IRA must
be set up by or for each eligible employee (the SEP IRA

Simplified Employee Pensions (SEPs)

9

may either be a traditional SEP IRA or a Roth SEP IRA).
SEP IRAs can be set up with banks, insurance companies, or other qualified financial institutions. You send SEP
contributions to the financial institution where the SEP IRA
is maintained.
Deadline for setting up a SEP. You can set up a SEP for
any year as late as the due date (including extensions) of
your income tax return for that year.

How Much Can I Contribute?
The SEP rules permit you to contribute a limited amount of
money each year to each employee's SEP IRA. If you are
self-employed, you can contribute to your own SEP IRA.
Contributions must be in the form of money (cash, check,
or money order). You can't contribute property. However,
participants may be able to transfer or roll over certain
property from one retirement plan to another. See Pubs.
590-A and 590-B for more information about rollovers.
You don't have to make contributions every year. But if
you make contributions, they must be based on a written
allocation formula and must not discriminate in favor of
highly compensated employees (defined in chapter 1).
When you contribute, you must contribute to the SEP IRAs
of all participants who actually performed personal services during the year for which the contributions are made,
including employees who die or terminate employment
before the contributions are made.
Contributions are deductible within limits, as discussed
later, and generally aren't taxable to the plan participants.
Employer contributions to a SEP IRA won’t affect the
amount an individual can contribute to a Roth or traditional
IRA.
Unlike regular contributions to a traditional IRA before
2020, contributions under a SEP can be made to participants over age 701/2. If you are self-employed, you can
also make contributions under the SEP for yourself even if
you are over age 701/2. Participants age 73 or over must
take required minimum distributions (RMDs).
Time limit for making contributions. To deduct contributions for a year, you must make the contributions by the
due date (including extensions) of your tax return for the
year.

Contribution Limits
Contributions you make for 2025 to a common-law employee's SEP IRA can't exceed the lesser of 25% of the
employee's compensation or $70,000. Compensation
generally doesn't include your contributions to the SEP.
The SEP plan document will specify how the employer
contribution is determined and how it will be allocated to
participants.
Example. Your employee has earned $21,000 for
2025. The maximum contribution you can make to your
employee’s SEP IRA is $5,250 (25% (0.25) x $21,000).
10

Chapter 2

Contributions for yourself. The annual limits on your
contributions to a common-law employee's SEP IRA also
apply to contributions you make to your own SEP IRA.
However, special rules apply when figuring your maximum
deductible contribution. See Deduction Limit for Self-Employed Individuals, later.
Annual compensation limit. You can't consider the part
of an employee's compensation over $350,000 when figuring your contribution limit for that employee. However,
$70,000 is the maximum contribution for an eligible employee. These limits increase to $360,000 and $72,000,
respectively, in 2026.
Example. Your employee has earned $260,000 for
2025. Because of the maximum contribution limit for 2025,
you can only contribute $70,000 to your employee’s SEP
IRA.
More than one plan. If you contribute to a defined contribution plan (defined in chapter 4), annual additions to an
account are limited to the lesser of $70,000 or 100% of the
participant's compensation. When you figure this limit, you
must add your contributions to all defined contribution
plans maintained by you. Because a SEP is considered a
defined contribution plan for this limit, your contributions to
a SEP must be added to your contributions to other defined contribution plans you maintain.
Tax treatment of excess contributions. Excess contributions are your contributions to an employee's SEP IRA
(or to your own SEP IRA) for 2025 that exceed the lesser
of the following amounts.

• 25% of the employee's compensation (or, for you,
20% of your net earnings from self-employment).

• $70,000.
Excess contributions are included in the employee's income for the year and are treated as contributions by the
employee to their SEP IRA. For more information on employee tax treatment of excess contributions, see Pub.
590-A.
Reporting. For contributions to a traditional SEP IRA,
don’t include SEP contributions on your employee's Form
W-2 unless contributions were made under a salary reduction arrangement (discussed later).
For contributions to a Roth SEP IRA, contributions
made under a salary reduction arrangement should be reported on Form W-2 (discussed later), while employer
matching and nonelective contributions should be reported in boxes 1 and 2a of Form 1099-R using code 2 or 7 in
box 7 and check the IRA/SEP/SIMPLE checkbox.

Deducting Contributions
Generally, you can deduct the contributions you make
each year to each employee's SEP IRA. If you are
self-employed, you can deduct the contributions you make
each year to your own SEP IRA.

Simplified Employee Pensions (SEPs)

Publication 560 (2025)

Deduction Limit for Contributions for
Participants
The most you can deduct for your contributions to your or
your employee's SEP IRA is the lesser of the following
amounts.
1. Your contributions (including any excess contributions
carryover).
2. 25% of the compensation (limited to $350,000 per
participant) paid to the participants during 2025, from
the business that has the plan, not to exceed $70,000
per participant.
In 2026, the amounts in (2) above increase to $360,000
and $72,000, respectively.

Deduction Limit for Self-Employed
Individuals
If you contribute to your own SEP IRA, you must make a
special computation to figure your maximum deduction for
these contributions. When figuring the deduction for contributions made to your own SEP IRA, compensation is
your net earnings from self-employment (defined in chapter 1), which takes into account both the following deductions.

• The deduction for the deductible part of your self-employment tax.

• The deduction for contributions to your own SEP IRA.
The deduction for contributions to your own SEP IRA
and your net earnings depend on each other. For this reason, you determine the deduction for contributions to your
own SEP IRA indirectly by reducing the contribution rate
called for in your plan. To do this, use the Rate Table for
Self-Employed or the Rate Worksheet for Self-Employed,
whichever is appropriate for your plan's contribution rate,
in chapter 5. Then, figure your maximum deduction by using the Deduction Worksheet for Self-Employed in chapter 5.

Carryover of Excess SEP
Contributions
If you made SEP contributions that are more than the deduction limit (nondeductible contributions), you can carry
over and deduct the difference in later years. However, the
carryover, when combined with the contribution for the
later year, is subject to the deduction limit for that year. If
you also contributed to a defined benefit plan or defined
contribution plan, see Carryover of Excess Contributions
under Employer Deduction in chapter 4 for the carryover
limit.
Excise tax. If you made nondeductible (excess) contributions to a SEP, you may be subject to a 10% excise tax.
For information about the excise tax, see Excise Tax for
Nondeductible (Excess) Contributions under Employer
Deduction in chapter 4.
Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 2

When To Deduct Contributions
When you can deduct contributions made for a year depends on the tax year for which the SEP is maintained.

• If the SEP is maintained on a calendar-year basis, you
deduct the yearly contributions on your tax return for
the year within which the calendar year ends.

• If you file your tax return and maintain the SEP using a
fiscal year or short tax year, you deduct contributions
made for a year on your tax return for that year.

Example. You are a fiscal-year taxpayer whose tax
year ends June 30. You maintain a SEP on a calendar-year basis. You deduct SEP contributions made for
calendar year 2025 on your tax return for your tax year
ending June 30, 2026.

Where To Deduct Contributions
Deduct the contributions you make for your common-law
employees on your tax return. For example, sole proprietors deduct them on Schedule C (Form 1040) or Schedule F (Form 1040), Profit or Loss From Farming; partnerships deduct them on Form 1065, U.S. Return of
Partnership Income; and corporations deduct them on
Form 1120, U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return, or Form
1120-S, U.S. Income Tax Return for an S Corporation.
Sole proprietors and partners deduct contributions for
themselves on line 16 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040). (If you
are a partner, contributions for yourself are shown on the
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), Partner's Share of Income,
Deductions, Credits, etc., you receive from the partnership.)
Caution: Remember that sole proprietors and partners
can't deduct as a business expense contributions made to
a SEP for themselves, only those made for their common-law employees.

Salary Reduction Simplified
Employee Pensions
(SARSEPs)
A SARSEP is a SEP set up before 1997 that includes a
salary reduction arrangement. (See the Caution next.) Under a SARSEP, your employees can choose to have you
contribute part of their pay to their SEP IRAs rather than
receive it in cash. This contribution is called an elective
deferral because employees choose (elect) to set aside
the money, and they defer the tax on the money until it is
distributed to them.
Caution: You aren't allowed to set up a SARSEP after
1996. However, participants (including employees hired
after 1996) in a SARSEP set up before 1997 can continue
to have you contribute part of their pay to the plan. If you

Simplified Employee Pensions (SEPs)

11

are interested in setting up a retirement plan that includes
a salary reduction arrangement, see chapter 3.
Who can have a SARSEP? A SARSEP set up before
1997 is available to you and your eligible employees only if
all the following requirements are met.

• At least 50% of your employees eligible to participate
choose to make elective deferrals.

• You have 25 or fewer employees who were eligible to

participate in the SEP at any time during the preceding
year.

• The elective deferrals of your highly compensated employees meet the SARSEP average deferral percentage (ADP) test.

SARSEP ADP test. Under the SARSEP ADP test, the
amount deferred each year by each eligible highly compensated employee as a percentage of pay (the deferral
percentage) can't be more than 125% of the ADP of all
non-highly compensated employees eligible to participate.
A highly compensated employee is defined in chapter 1.
Deferral percentage. The deferral percentage for an
employee for a year is figured as follows.
Beginning in 2005, section 1.09
The elective employer contributions
(excluding certain catch-up contributions)
paid to the SEP for the employee for the year
The employee's compensation
(limited to $350,000 in 2025)

Tip: The instructions for Form 5305A-SEP have a worksheet you can use to determine whether the elective deferrals of your highly compensated employees meet the
SARSEP ADP test.
Employee compensation. For figuring the deferral
percentage, compensation is generally the amount you
pay to the employee for the year. Compensation includes
the elective deferral and other amounts deferred in certain
employee benefit plans. See Compensation in chapter 1.
Elective deferrals under the SARSEP are included in figuring your employees' deferral percentage even though they
aren't included in the income of your employees for income tax purposes.
Compensation of self-employed individuals. If you
are self-employed, compensation is your net earnings
from self-employment as defined in chapter 1.
Compensation doesn't include tax-free items (or deductions related to them) other than foreign earned income and housing cost amounts.
Choice not to treat deferrals as compensation. You
can choose not to treat elective deferrals (and other
amounts deferred in certain employee benefit plans) for a
year as compensation under your SARSEP.

Limit on Elective Deferrals
The most a participant can choose to defer for calendar
year 2025 is the lesser of the following amounts.
1. 25% of the participant's compensation (limited to
$350,000 of the participant's compensation).
2. $23,500.
The $23,500 limit applies to the total elective deferrals
the employee makes for the year to a SEP and any of the
following.

• Cash or deferred arrangement (section 401(k) plan).
• Salary reduction arrangement under a tax-sheltered
annuity plan (section 403(b) plan).

• SIMPLE IRA plan.
In 2026, the $350,000 limit increases to $360,000, and
the $23,500 limit increases to $24,500.
Catch-up contributions. A SARSEP can permit participants who are age 50 or over at the end of the calendar
year to also make catch-up contributions. The catch-up
contribution limit is $7,500 for 2025 and $8,000 for 2026.
Elective deferrals aren't treated as catch-up contributions
for 2025 until they exceed the elective deferral limit (the
lesser of 25% of compensation, or $23,500), the SARSEP
ADP test limit discussed earlier, or the plan limit (if any).
However, the catch-up contribution a participant can make
for a year can't exceed the lesser of the following amounts.

• The catch-up contribution limit.
• The excess of the participant's compensation over the
elective deferrals that aren't catch-up contributions.

Catch-up contributions aren't subject to the elective deferral limit (the lesser of 25% of compensation, or $23,500
in 2025 and $24,500 in 2026).
Beginning in 2025, section 109 of the SECURE 2.0 Act
of 2022 permits a SARSEP to allow participants to make a
higher amount of catch-up contributions in a tax year in
which they attain age 60, 61, 62, or 63. For 2025 and
2026, the higher limit on catch-up contributions to a SARSEP for such participants is $11,250.
Overall limit on SEP contributions. If you also make
nonelective contributions to a SEP IRA, the total of the
nonelective and elective contributions to that SEP IRA
can't exceed the lesser of 25% of the employee's compensation, or $70,000 for 2025 ($72,000 for 2026). The same
rule applies to contributions you make to your own SEP
IRA. See Contribution Limits, earlier.
Figuring the elective deferral. For figuring the 25% limit
on elective deferrals, compensation doesn't include SEP
contributions, including elective deferrals or other
amounts deferred in certain employee benefit plans.

Tax Treatment of Deferrals
Elective deferrals to a traditional SEP IRA that aren't more
than the limits discussed earlier under Limit on Elective

12

Chapter 2

Simplified Employee Pensions (SEPs)

Publication 560 (2025)

Deferrals are excluded from your employees' wages subject to federal income tax in the year of deferral. However,
these deferrals are included in wages for social security,
Medicare, and federal unemployment (FUTA) taxes. Elective deferrals to a Roth SEP IRA are subject to federal income tax withholding, social security, Medicare, railroad
retirement, and FUTA taxes.
Excess deferrals. For 2025, excess deferrals are the
elective deferrals for the year that are more than the
$23,500 limit discussed earlier. For a participant who is eligible to make catch-up contributions (but is not eligible for
the higher catch-up contribution limit under section 109 of
the SECURE 2.0 Act for individuals attaining age 60, 61,
62, or 63), excess deferrals are the elective deferrals that
are more than $31,000. The treatment of excess deferrals
made under a SARSEP is similar to the treatment of excess deferrals made under a qualified plan. See Treatment of Excess Deferrals under Elective Deferrals (401(k)
Plans) in chapter 4.
Excess SEP contributions. Excess SEP contributions
are elective deferrals of highly compensated employees
that are more than the amount permitted under the SARSEP ADP test. You must notify your highly compensated
employees within 21/2 months after the end of the plan
year of their excess SEP contributions. If you don't notify
them within this time period, you must pay a 10% tax on
the excess. For an explanation of the notification requirements, see Revenue Procedure 91-44, 1991-2 C.B. 733. If
you adopted a SARSEP using Form 5305A-SEP, the notification requirements are explained in the instructions for
that form.
Reporting on Form W-2. Don’t include elective deferrals
to a traditional SEP IRA in the “Wages, tips, other compensation” box of Form W-2. You must, however, include
them in the “Social security wages” and “Medicare wages
and tips” boxes. You must also include them in box 12.
Check the “Retirement plan” checkbox in box 13. Include
elective deferrals to a Roth SEP IRA in the boxes 1, 3, and
5 (or box 14 for railroad retirement taxes) and report them
in box 12 using code F. For more information, see the
Form W-2 instructions.

Additional Taxes
The tax advantages of using SEP IRAs for retirement savings can be offset by additional taxes that may be imposed for all the following actions.

• Making excess contributions.
• Making early withdrawals.
• Not making required withdrawals.
For information about these taxes, see Pubs. 590-A
and 590-B. Also, a SEP IRA may be disqualified, or an excise tax may apply, if the account is involved in a prohibited transaction, discussed next.
Prohibited transaction. If an employee improperly uses
their SEP IRA, such as by borrowing money from it, the
employee has engaged in a prohibited transaction. In that
case, the SEP IRA will no longer qualify as an IRA. For a
list of prohibited transactions, see Prohibited Transactions
in chapter 4.
Effects on employee. If a SEP IRA is disqualified because of a prohibited transaction, the assets in the account will be treated as having been distributed to the employee on the first day of the year in which the transaction
occurred. The employee must include in income the fair
market value of the assets (on the first day of the year)
that is more than any cost basis in the account. Also, the
employee may have to pay the additional tax for making
early withdrawals.

Reporting and Disclosure
Requirements

Distributions (Withdrawals)

If you set up a SEP using Form 5305-SEP, you must give
your eligible employees certain information about the SEP
when you set it up. See Setting Up a SEP, earlier. Also,
you must give your eligible employees a statement each
year showing any contributions to their SEP IRAs. You
must also give them notice of any excess contributions.
For details about other information you must give them,
see the instructions for Form 5305-SEP or Form
5305A-SEP (for a salary SARSEP).

As an employer, you can't prohibit distributions from a
SEP IRA. Also, you can't make your contributions on the
condition that any part of them must be kept in the account after you have made your contributions to the employee's accounts.

Even if you didn't use Form 5305-SEP or Form
5305A-SEP to set up your SEP, you must give your employees information similar to that described above. For
more information, see the instructions for either Form
5305-SEP or Form 5305A-SEP.

Distributions are subject to IRA rules. Generally, you or
your employee must begin to receive distributions from a
traditional SEP IRA by April 1 of the first year after the calendar year in which you or your employee reaches age 73.
For more information about IRA rules, including the tax
treatment of distributions, rollovers, required distributions,
and income tax withholding, see Pubs. 590-A and 590-B.
Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 2

Simplified Employee Pensions (SEPs)

13

SIMPLE IRA Plan

3.

A SIMPLE IRA plan is a retirement plan that uses a SIMPLE IRA for each eligible employee. Under a SIMPLE IRA
plan, a SIMPLE IRA must be set up for each eligible employee (the SIMPLE IRA may either be a traditional SIMPLE IRA or a Roth SIMPLE IRA). For the definition of an
eligible employee, see Who Can Participate in a SIMPLE
IRA Plan, later.

SIMPLE Plans
Topics

This chapter discusses:

• SIMPLE IRA plans
• SIMPLE 401(k) plans

Who Can Set up a SIMPLE IRA Plan?

Useful Items

You can set up a SIMPLE IRA plan if you meet both the
following requirements.

Publications

• You meet the employee limit.
• You don't maintain another qualified plan unless the

You may want to see:

590-A Contributions to Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
590-A

590-B Distributions from Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
590-B

3998 Choosing a Retirement Solution for Your Small
Business
3998

4284 SIMPLE IRA Plan Checklist
4284

4334 SIMPLE IRA Plans for Small Businesses
4334

Forms (and Instructions)
W-2 Wage and Tax Statement
W-2

5304-SIMPLE Savings Incentive Match Plan for
Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE)—Not
for Use With a Designated Financial Institution
5304-SIMPLE

5305-SIMPLE Savings Incentive Match Plan for
Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE)—for
Use With a Designated Financial Institution
5305-SIMPLE

8880 Credit for Qualified Retirement Savings
Contributions
8880

8881 Credit for Small Employer Pension Plan
Startup Costs and Auto Enrollment
8881

A SIMPLE plan is a written arrangement that provides you
and your employees with a simplified way to make contributions to provide retirement income. Under a SIMPLE
plan, employees can choose to make salary reduction
contributions to the plan rather than receiving these
amounts as part of their regular pay. In addition, you will
contribute matching or nonelective contributions.
SIMPLE plans can only be maintained on a calendar-year
basis.
A SIMPLE plan can be set up in either of the following
ways.

• Using SIMPLE IRAs (SIMPLE IRA plan).
• As part of a 401(k) plan (SIMPLE 401(k) plan).
Tip: Many financial institutions will help you set up a SIMPLE plan.
14

Chapter 3

other plan is for collective bargaining employees.

Employee limit. You can set up a SIMPLE IRA plan only
if you had 100 or fewer employees who received $5,000 or
more in compensation from you for the preceding year.
Under this rule, you must take into account all employees
employed at any time during the calendar year regardless
of whether they are eligible to participate. Employees include self-employed individuals who received earned income and leased employees (defined in chapter 1).
Once you set up a SIMPLE IRA plan, you must continue to meet the 100-employee limit each year you maintain the plan.
Grace period for employers who cease to meet the
100-employee limit. If you maintain the SIMPLE IRA
plan for at least 1 year and you cease to meet the 100-employee limit in a later year, you will be treated as meeting it
for the 2 calendar years immediately following the calendar year for which you last met it.
A different rule applies if you don't meet the 100-employee limit because of an acquisition, disposition, or similar transaction. Under this rule, the SIMPLE IRA plan will
be treated as meeting the 100-employee limit for the year
of the transaction and the 2 following years if both the following conditions are satisfied.

• Coverage under the plan hasn’t significantly changed
during the grace period.

• The SIMPLE IRA plan would have continued to qualify
after the transaction if you had remained a separate
employer.

Caution: The grace period for acquisitions, dispositions,
and similar transactions also applies if, because of these
types of transactions, you don't meet the rules explained
under Other qualified plan or Who Can Participate in a
SIMPLE IRA Plan, later.
Other qualified plan. The SIMPLE IRA plan must generally be the only retirement plan to which you make contributions, or to which benefits accrue, for service in any
year beginning with the year the SIMPLE IRA plan becomes effective.
SIMPLE Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

Exception. If you maintain a qualified plan for collective bargaining employees, you are permitted to maintain a
SIMPLE IRA plan for other employees.

Who Can Participate in a SIMPLE IRA
Plan?
Eligible employee. Any employee who received at least
$5,000 in compensation during any 2 years preceding the
current calendar year and is reasonably expected to receive at least $5,000 during the current calendar year is
eligible to participate. The term “employee” includes a
self-employed individual who received earned income.
You can use less restrictive eligibility requirements (but
not more restrictive ones) by eliminating or reducing the
prior-year compensation requirements, the current-year
compensation requirements, or both. For example, you
can allow participation for employees who received at
least $3,000 in compensation during any preceding calendar year. However, you can't impose any other conditions
for participating in a SIMPLE IRA plan.
Excludable employees. The following employees don't
need to be covered under a SIMPLE IRA plan.

• Employees who are covered by a union agreement

and whose retirement benefits were bargained for in
good faith by the employees' union and you.

• Nonresident alien employees who have received no

U.S. source wages, salaries, or other personal services compensation from you.

Compensation. Compensation for employees is the total
wages, tips, and other compensation from the employer
subject to federal income tax withholding and the amounts
paid for domestic service in a private home, local college
club, or local chapter of a college fraternity or sorority.
Compensation also includes the employee's salary reduction contributions made under this plan and, if applicable,
elective deferrals under a section 401(k) plan, a SARSEP,
or a section 403(b) annuity contract and compensation
deferred under a section 457 plan required to be reported
by the employer on Form W-2. If you are self-employed,
compensation is your net earnings from self-employment
(line 4 of Schedule SE (Form 1040)) before subtracting
any contributions made to the SIMPLE IRA plan for yourself.

How To Set up a SIMPLE IRA Plan
You can use Form 5304-SIMPLE or Form 5305-SIMPLE to
set up a SIMPLE IRA plan. Each form is a model SIMPLE
plan document. Which form you use depends on whether
you select a financial institution or your employees select
the institution that will receive the contributions.
Use Form 5304-SIMPLE if you allow each plan participant to select the financial institution for receiving their
SIMPLE IRA plan contributions. Use Form 5305-SIMPLE
if you require that all contributions under the SIMPLE IRA
plan be deposited initially at a designated financial institution.
Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 3

The SIMPLE IRA plan is adopted when you have completed all appropriate boxes and blanks on the form and
you (and the designated financial institution, if any) have
signed it. Keep the original form. Don’t file it with the IRS.
Other uses of the forms. If you set up a SIMPLE IRA
plan using Form 5304-SIMPLE or Form 5305-SIMPLE,
you can use the form to satisfy other requirements, including the following.

• Meeting employer notification requirements for the

SIMPLE IRA plan. Form 5304-SIMPLE and Form
5305-SIMPLE contain a Model Notification to Eligible
Employees that provides the necessary information to
the employee.

• Maintaining the SIMPLE IRA plan records and proving
you set up a SIMPLE IRA plan for employees.

Deadline for setting up a SIMPLE IRA plan. You can
set up a SIMPLE IRA plan effective on any date from January 1 through October 1 of a year, provided you didn't
previously maintain a SIMPLE IRA plan. This requirement
doesn't apply if you are a new employer that comes into
existence after October 1 of the year the SIMPLE IRA plan
is set up and you set up a SIMPLE IRA plan as soon as
administratively feasible after your business comes into
existence. If you previously maintained a SIMPLE IRA
plan, you can set up a SIMPLE IRA plan effective only on
January 1 of a year. A SIMPLE IRA plan can't have an effective date that is before the date you actually adopt the
plan.
Setting up a SIMPLE IRA. SIMPLE IRAs are the individual retirement accounts or annuities into which the contributions are deposited. A SIMPLE IRA must be set up for
each eligible employee. Pursuant to section 601 of the
SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022, a SIMPLE IRA may either be a
traditional IRA (traditional SIMPLE IRA) or a Roth IRA
(Roth SIMPLE IRA). Forms 5305-S, SIMPLE Individual
Retirement Trust Account, and 5305-SA, SIMPLE Individual Retirement Custodial Account, are model trust and
custodial account documents the participant and the
trustee (or custodian) can use for this purpose for a traditional SIMPLE IRA (there are not currently model documents for a Roth SIMPLE IRA).
Contributions to a SIMPLE IRA won't affect the amount
an individual can contribute to a Roth or traditional IRA.
Deadline for setting up a SIMPLE IRA. A SIMPLE
IRA must be set up for an employee before the first date
by which a contribution is required to be deposited into the
employee's IRA. See Time limits for contributing funds,
later, under Contribution Limits.

Notification Requirement
If you adopt a SIMPLE IRA plan, you must notify each employee of the following information before the beginning of
the election period.
1. The employee's opportunity to make or change a salary reduction choice under a SIMPLE IRA plan.
SIMPLE Plans

15

2. Your decision to make either matching contributions
or nonelective contributions (discussed later).
3. A summary description provided by the financial institution.
4. Written notice that their balance can be transferred
without cost or penalty if they use a designated financial institution.
Election period. The election period is generally the
60-day period immediately preceding January 1 of a calendar year (November 2 to December 31 of the preceding
calendar year). However, the dates of this period are
modified if you set up a SIMPLE IRA plan mid-year (for example, on July 1) or if the 60-day period falls before the
first day an employee becomes eligible to participate in
the SIMPLE IRA plan.
A SIMPLE IRA plan can provide longer periods for permitting employees to enter into salary reduction agreements or to modify prior agreements. For example, a SIMPLE IRA plan can provide a 90-day election period
instead of the 60-day period. Similarly, in addition to the
60-day period, a SIMPLE IRA plan can provide quarterly
election periods during the 30 days before each calendar
quarter, other than the first quarter of each year.

Contribution Limits
Contributions are made up of salary reduction contributions and employer contributions. You, as the employer,
must make either matching contributions or nonelective
contributions, defined later. No other contributions can be
made to the SIMPLE IRA plan. These contributions, which
you can deduct, must be made timely. See Time limits for
contributing funds, later.
Salary reduction contributions. The amount the employee chooses to have you contribute to a SIMPLE IRA
on their behalf generally can't be more than $16,500 for
2025 and increases to $17,000 for 2026. Pursuant to section 117 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022, a higher limit of
$17,600 may apply to participants in SIMPLE IRA plans
for certain employers for 2025. These contributions must
be expressed as a percentage of the employee's compensation unless you permit the employee to express them as
a specific dollar amount. You can't place restrictions on
the contribution amount (such as limiting the contribution
percentage), except to comply with the $16,500 limit for
2025 ($17,000 for 2026).
If you or an employee participates in any other qualified
plan during the year and you or your employee has salary
reduction contributions (elective deferrals) under those
plans, the salary reduction contributions under a SIMPLE
IRA plan also count toward the overall annual limit
($23,500 for 2025; $24,500 for 2026) on exclusion of salary reduction contributions and other elective deferrals.
Catch-up contributions. A SIMPLE IRA plan can permit participants who are age 50 or over at the end of the
calendar year to also make catch-up contributions. The
catch-up contribution limit for SIMPLE IRA plans is generally $3,500 for 2025 and $4,000 for 2026. Pursuant to
16

Chapter 3

section 117(b) of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022, a higher
catch-up limit of $3,850 may apply to participants in SIMPLE IRA plans of certain employers for 2025. Salary reduction contributions aren't treated as catch-up contributions until they exceed $16,500 for 2025 ($17,000 for
2026). However, the catch-up contribution a participant
can make for a year can't exceed the lesser of the following amounts.

• The catch-up contribution limit.
• The excess of the participant's compensation over the
salary reduction contributions that aren't catch-up
contributions.

Beginning in 2025, section 109 of the SECURE 2.0 Act
of 2022 permits SIMPLE plans (including SIMPLE 401(k)
and SIMPLE IRA plans) to allow participants to make a
higher amount of catch-up contributions in a tax year in
which they attain age 60, 61, 62, or 63. For 2025 and
2026, the higher limit on catch-up contributions to SIMPLE
plans for such participants is $5,250.
Employer matching contributions. You are generally
required to match each employee's salary reduction contribution(s) on a dollar-for-dollar basis up to 3% of the employee's compensation, where only employees who have
elected to make contributions will receive an employer
matching contribution. Pursuant to section 117 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022, higher matching contributions apply for certain employers who elect to allow higher salary
reduction contributions. This requirement doesn't apply if
you make nonelective contributions, as discussed later.
Example. In 2025, your employee earned $25,000 and
chose to defer 5% of their salary. The net earnings from
self-employment are $40,000, and you choose to contribute 10% of your earnings to your SIMPLE IRA. You make
3% matching contributions. The total contribution made
for the employee is $2,000, figured as follows.
Salary reduction contributions
($25,000 × 5% (0.05)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employer matching contribution
($25,000 × 3% (0.03)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$1,250
750
$2,000

The total contribution you make for yourself is $5,200,
figured as follows.
Salary reduction contributions
($40,000 × 10% (0.10)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Employer matching contribution
($40,000 × 3% (0.03)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$4,000
1,200
$5,200

Lower percentage. If you choose a matching contribution less than 3%, the percentage must be at least 1%.
You must notify the employees of the lower match within a
reasonable period of time before the 60-day election period (discussed earlier) for the calendar year. You can't
choose a percentage less than 3% for more than 2 years
during the 5-year period that ends with (and includes) the
year for which the choice is effective.
SIMPLE Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

Nonelective contributions. Instead of matching contributions, you can choose to make nonelective contributions of 2% of compensation on behalf of each eligible
employee who has at least $5,000 (or some lower amount
you select) of compensation from you for the year. Pursuant to section 117 of the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022,
higher nonelective contributions apply for certain employers who elect to allow higher salary reduction contributions. If you make this choice, you must make nonelective
contributions whether or not the employee chooses to
make salary reduction contributions. Only $350,000 of the
employee's compensation can be taken into account to
figure the contribution limit in 2025 ($360,000 in 2026).
If you choose this 2% contribution formula, you must
notify the employees within a reasonable period of time
before the 60-day election period (discussed earlier) for
the calendar year.
Example 1. In 2025, your employee, Jane Wood,
earned $36,000 and chose to have you contribute 10% of
her salary. Your net earnings from self-employment are
$50,000, and you choose to contribute 10% of your earnings to your SIMPLE IRA. You make a 2% nonelective
contribution. Both of you are under age 50. The total contribution you make for Jane is $4,320, figured as follows.
Salary reduction contributions
($36,000 × 10% (0.10)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2% nonelective contributions
($36,000 × 2% (0.02)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$3,600
720
$4,320

The total contribution you make for yourself is $6,000,
figured as follows.
Salary reduction contributions
($50,000 × 10% (0.10)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2% nonelective contributions
($50,000 × 2% (0.02)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

The due date for making contributions for 2025 for most
plans is Monday, April 15, 2026.
Example 1. Your tax year is the fiscal year ending
June 30. Contributions under a SIMPLE IRA plan for calendar year 2024 (including contributions made by the due
date for the return for the tax year that ends on June 30,
2026) are deductible in the tax year ending June 30, 2026.
Example 2. You are a sole proprietor whose tax year is
the calendar year. Contributions under a SIMPLE IRA plan
for calendar year 2025 (including contributions made by
the due date for the return for the 2025 tax year) are deductible in the 2025 tax year.

Where To Deduct Contributions
Deduct the contributions you make for your common-law
employees on your tax return. For example, sole proprietors deduct them on Schedule C (Form 1040) or Schedule F (Form 1040), partnerships deduct them on Form
1065, and corporations deduct them on Form 1120 or
1120-S.

$5,000
1,000
$6,000

Tax Treatment of Contributions

$12,500
1,500
$14,000

Time limits for contributing funds. You must make the
salary reduction contributions to the SIMPLE IRA within
30 days after the end of the month in which the amounts
would otherwise have been payable to the employee in
cash. You must make matching contributions or nonelective contributions by the due date (including extensions)
for filing your federal income tax return for the year. Certain plans subject to DOL rules may have an earlier due
date for salary reduction contributions.

Publication 560 (2025)

You can deduct SIMPLE IRA contributions in the tax year
within which the calendar year for which contributions
were made ends. You can deduct contributions for a particular tax year if they are made for that tax year and are
made by the due date (including extensions) of your federal income tax return for that year.

Sole proprietors and partners deduct contributions for
themselves on line 16 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040). (If you
are a partner, contributions for yourself are shown on the
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) you receive from the partnership.)

Example 2. Using the same facts as in Example 1
above, the maximum contribution you make for Jane or for
yourself if you each earned $75,000 is $14,000, figured as
follows.
Salary reduction contributions
(maximum amount allowed) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2% nonelective contributions
($75,000 × 2% (0.02)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

When To Deduct Contributions

Chapter 3

You can deduct your contributions as an employer. Your
employees can exclude contributions to a traditional SIMPLE IRA from their gross income. SIMPLE IRA plan contributions to a traditional SIMPLE IRA aren't subject to federal income tax withholding. However, salary reduction
contributions to a traditional SIMPLE IRA are subject to
social security, Medicare, and FUTA taxes. Matching and
nonelective contributions to a traditional SIMPLE IRA
aren't subject to these taxes. Salary reduction contributions to a Roth SIMPLE IRA are includible in gross income
and subject to federal income tax withholding, social security, Medicare, railroad retirement, and FUTA taxes. Employer matching and nonelective contributions to a Roth
SIMPLE IRA aren't subject to these taxes.
Reporting. For contributions made to a traditional SIMPLE IRA, don’t include contributions made under a salary
reduction arrangement in the “Wages, tips, other compensation” box of Form W-2. You must, however, include them
in the “Social security wages” and “Medicare wages and
tips” boxes. You must also include them in box 12. Check
the “Retirement plan” checkbox in box 13.
SIMPLE Plans

17

For contributions to a Roth SIMPLE IRA, contributions
made under a salary reduction arrangement should be reported on Form W-2 in boxes 1, 3, and 5 (or box 14 for
railroad retirement taxes) and in box 12 using code S. Employer matching and nonelective contributions to a Roth
SIMPLE IRA should be reported in boxes 1 and 2a of
Form 1099-R using code 2 or 7 in box 7 and check the
IRA/SEP/SIMPLE checkbox.
For more information, see the Form W-2 instructions.

See Catch-up contributions, earlier, under Contribution Limits. Pursuant to section 117 of the SECURE
2.0 Act of 2022, special salary reduction and catch-up
contribution limits apply for certain employers.
2. You must make either:
a. Matching contributions up to 3% of compensation
for the year, or
b. Nonelective contributions of 2% of compensation
on behalf of each eligible employee who has at
least $5,000 of compensation from you for the
year.
Pursuant to section 117 of the SECURE 2.0 Act
of 2022, higher matching and nonelective contributions apply for certain employers who elect to
allow higher salary reduction contributions.

Distributions (Withdrawals)
Distributions from a SIMPLE IRA are subject to IRA rules
and are generally includible in income for the year received. Tax-free rollovers can be made from one SIMPLE
IRA into another SIMPLE IRA. However, a rollover from a
SIMPLE IRA to a non-SIMPLE IRA can be made tax free
only after a 2-year participation in the SIMPLE IRA plan.
Generally, you or your employee must begin to receive
distributions from a traditional SIMPLE IRA by April 1 of
the first year after the calendar year in which you or your
employee reaches age 73.
Early withdrawals are generally subject to a 10% additional tax. However, the additional tax is increased to 25%
if funds are withdrawn within 2 years of beginning participation.
More information. See Pubs. 590-A and 590-B for information about IRA rules, including those on the tax treatment of distributions, rollovers, required distributions, and
income tax withholding.

More Information on SIMPLE IRA
Plans
If you need help to set up or maintain a SIMPLE IRA plan,
go to IRS.gov/SIMPLE.

SIMPLE 401(k) Plan
You can adopt a SIMPLE plan as part of a 401(k) plan if
you meet the 100-employee limit, as discussed earlier under SIMPLE IRA Plan. A SIMPLE 401(k) plan is a qualified
retirement plan and must generally satisfy the rules discussed under Qualification Rules in chapter 4, including
the required distribution rules. However, a SIMPLE 401(k)
plan isn't subject to the nondiscrimination and top-heavy
rules discussed in chapter 4 if the plan meets the conditions listed below.
1. Under the plan, an employee can choose to have you
make salary reduction contributions for the year to a
trust in an amount expressed as a percentage of the
employee's compensation, but not more than $16,500
for 2025 ($17,000 for 2026). If permitted under the
plan, an employee who is age 50 or over can also
make a catch-up contribution of up to $3,500 for 2025
and $4,000 for 2026 (or a higher amount in a tax year
in which the employee attains age 60, 61, 62, or 63) .
18

Chapter 4

3. No other contributions can be made to the trust.
4. No contributions are made, and no benefits accrue,
for services during the year under any other qualified
retirement plan sponsored by you on behalf of any
employee eligible to participate in the SIMPLE 401(k)
plan.
5. The employee's rights to any contributions are nonforfeitable.
No more than $350,000 of the employee's compensation can be taken into account in figuring matching contributions and nonelective contributions in 2025 ($360,000
in 2026). Compensation is defined earlier in this chapter.
Employee notification. The notification requirement that
applies to SIMPLE IRA plans also applies to SIMPLE
401(k) plans. See Notification Requirement, earlier in this
chapter.
Note on forms. Please note that Forms 5304-SIMPLE
and 5305-SIMPLE can’t be used to establish a SIMPLE
401(k) plan. To set up a SIMPLE 401(k) plan, see Adopting a Written Plan in chapter 4.

4.
Qualified Plans
Topics

This chapter discusses:

• Kinds of plans
• Qualification rules
• Setting up a qualified plan
• Minimum funding requirement
• Contributions
Qualified Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

• Employer deduction
• Elective deferrals (401(k) plans)
• Qualified Roth contribution program
• Distributions
• Prohibited transactions
• Reporting requirements

5500 Annual Return/Report of Employee Benefit
Plan
5500

5500-EZ Annual Return of A One-Participant
(Owners/Partners and Their Spouses)
Retirement Plan or A Foreign Plan
5500-EZ

5500-SF Short Form Annual Return/Report of Small
Employee Benefit Plan
5500-SF

8717 User Fee for Employee Plan Determination
Letter Request

Useful Items

8717

You may want to see:

8880 Credit for Qualified Retirement Savings
Contributions
8880

Publications
575 Pension and Annuity Income

8881 Credit for Small Employer Pension Plan
Startup Costs
8881

575

590-A Contributions to Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
590-A

590-B Distributions from Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
590-B

3066 Have you had your check-up this year? for
Retirement Plans
3066

3998 Choosing a Retirement Solution for Your Small
Business
3998

4222 401(k) Plans for Small Businesses
4222

4530 Designated Roth Accounts under a 401(k),
403(b) or governmental 457(b) plan
4530

4531 401(k) Plan Checklist
4531

4674 Automatic Enrollment 401(k) Plans for Small
Businesses
4674

4806 Profit Sharing Plans for Small Businesses
4806

Forms (and Instructions)

8955-SSA Annual Registration Statement Identifying
Separated Participants With Deferred Vested
Benefits
8955-SSA

These qualified retirement plans set up by self-employed
individuals are sometimes called Keogh or H.R. 10 plans.
A sole proprietor or a partnership can set up one of these
plans. A common-law employee or a partner can't set up
one of these plans. The plans described here can also be
set up and maintained by employers that are corporations.
All of the rules discussed here apply to corporations except where specifically limited to the self-employed.
The plan must be for the exclusive benefit of employees or
their beneficiaries. These qualified plans can include coverage for a self-employed individual.
As an employer, you can usually deduct, subject to limits,
contributions you make to a qualified plan, including those
made for your own retirement. The contributions (and
earnings and gains on them) are generally tax free until
distributed by the plan.

W-2 Wage and Tax Statement
W-2

Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) Partner's Share of
Income, Deductions, Credits, etc.

Kinds of Plans

1099-R Distributions From Pensions, Annuities,
Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs,
Insurance Contracts, etc.
1040-SR U.S. Tax Return for Seniors

There are two basic kinds of qualified plans—defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans—and different
rules apply to each. You can have more than one qualified
plan, but your contributions to all the plans must not total
more than the overall limits discussed under Contributions
and Employer Deduction, later.

Schedule C (Form 1040) Profit or Loss From
Business

Defined Contribution Plan

Schedule F (Form 1040) Profit or Loss From
Farming

A defined contribution plan provides an individual account
for each participant in the plan. It provides benefits to a
participant largely based on the amount contributed to that
participant's account. Benefits are also affected by any income, expenses, gains, losses, and forfeitures of other accounts that may be allocated to an account. A defined
contribution plan can be either a profit-sharing plan or a
money purchase pension plan.

Schedule K-1 (Form 1065)

1099-R

1040 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
1040

1040-SR

Schedule C (Form 1040)

Schedule F (Form 1040)

5300 Application for Determination for Employee
Benefit Plan
5300

5310 Application for Determination for Terminating
Plan
5310

5329 Additional Taxes on Qualified Plans (Including
IRAs) and Other Tax-Favored Accounts
5329

5330 Return of Excise Taxes Related to Employee
Benefit Plans
5330

Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 4

Profit-sharing plan. Although it is called a profit-sharing
plan, you don’t actually have to make a business profit for
the year in order to make a contribution (except for
Qualified Plans

19

yourself if you are self-employed, as discussed under
Self-employed individual, later). A profit-sharing plan can
be set up to allow for discretionary employer contributions,
meaning the amount contributed each year to the plan
isn't fixed. An employer may even make no contribution to
the plan for a given year.
The plan must provide a definite formula for allocating
the contribution among the participants and for distributing
the accumulated funds to the employees after they reach
a certain age, after a fixed number of years, or upon certain other occurrences.
In general, you can be more flexible in making contributions to a profit-sharing plan than to a money purchase
pension plan (discussed next) or a defined benefit plan
(discussed later).
Money purchase pension plan. Contributions to a
money purchase pension plan are fixed and aren't based
on your business profits. For example, a money purchase
pension plan may require that contributions be 10% of the
participants' compensation without regard to whether you
have profits (or the self-employed person has earned income).

Defined Benefit Plan
A defined benefit plan is any plan that isn't a defined contribution plan. Contributions to a defined benefit plan are
based on what is needed to provide definitely determinable benefits to plan participants. Actuarial assumptions
and computations are required to figure these contributions. Generally, you will need continuing professional help
to have a defined benefit plan.

Qualification Rules
To qualify for the tax benefits available to qualified plans, a
plan must meet certain requirements (qualification rules)
of the tax law. Generally, unless you write your own plan,
the financial institution that provided your plan will take the
continuing responsibility for meeting qualification rules
that are later changed. The following is a brief overview of
important qualification rules that generally haven't yet
been discussed. It isn't intended to be all-inclusive. See
Setting Up a Qualified Plan, later.
Tip: Generally, the following qualification rules also apply
to a SIMPLE 401(k) retirement plan. A SIMPLE 401(k)
plan is, however, not subject to the top-heavy plan rules
and nondiscrimination rules if the plan satisfies the provisions discussed in chapter 3 under SIMPLE 401(k) Plan.
Plan assets must not be diverted. Your plan must
make it impossible for its assets to be used for, or diverted
to, purposes other than the exclusive benefit of employees
and their beneficiaries. As a general rule, the assets can't
be diverted to the employer.

20

Chapter 4

Minimum coverage requirement must be met. To be a
qualified plan, a defined benefit plan must benefit at least
the lesser of the following.
1. 50 employees.
2. The greater of:
a. 40% of all employees, or
b. Two employees.
If there is only one employee, the plan must benefit that
employee.
Contributions or benefits must not discriminate. Under the plan, contributions or benefits to be provided must
not discriminate in favor of highly compensated employees.
Contributions and benefits must not be more than
certain limits. Your plan must not provide for contributions or benefits that are more than certain limits. The limits apply to the annual contributions and other additions to
the account of a participant in a defined contribution plan
and to the annual benefit payable to a participant in a defined benefit plan. These limits are discussed later in this
chapter under Contributions.
Minimum vesting standard must be met. Your plan
must satisfy certain requirements regarding when benefits
vest. A benefit is vested (you have a fixed right to it) when
it becomes nonforfeitable. A benefit is nonforfeitable if it
can't be lost upon the happening, or failure to happen, of
any event. Special rules apply to forfeited benefit
amounts. In defined contribution plans, forfeitures can be
allocated to the accounts of remaining participants in a
nondiscriminatory way, or they can be used to reduce your
contributions.
Forfeitures under a defined benefit plan can't be used
to increase the benefits any employee would otherwise receive under the plan. Forfeitures must be used instead to
reduce employer contributions.
Participation. In general, an employee must be allowed
to participate in your plan if they meet both the following
requirements.

• Has reached age 21.
• Has at least 1 year of service (2 years if the plan isn't a
401(k) plan and provides that after not more than 2
years of service the employee has a nonforfeitable
right to all their accrued benefit).

See Elective Deferrals (401(k) Plans), later, for additional information regarding conditions of participation in a
401(k) plan.
Caution: A plan can't exclude an employee because the
employee has reached a specified age.

Qualified Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

Leased employee. A leased employee, defined in chapter 1, who performs services for you (recipient of the services) is treated as your employee for certain plan qualification rules. These rules include those in all the following
areas.

The automatic survivor benefit also applies to any participant under a profit-sharing plan unless all the following
conditions are met.

• Nondiscrimination in coverage, contributions, and

• The plan pays the full vested account balance to the

benefits.

a life annuity.

participant's surviving spouse (or other beneficiary if
the surviving spouse consents or if there is no surviving spouse) if the participant dies.

• Minimum age and service requirements.
• Vesting.
• Limits on contributions and benefits.
• Top-heavy plan requirements.

• The plan isn't a direct or indirect transferee of a plan
that must provide automatic survivor benefits.

Contributions or benefits provided by the leasing organization for services performed for you are treated as provided
by you.
Benefit payment must begin when required. Your plan
must provide that, unless the participant chooses otherwise, the payment of benefits to the participant must begin
within 60 days after the close of the latest of the following
periods.

• The plan year in which the participant reaches the earlier of age 65 or the normal retirement age specified in
the plan.

• The plan year in which the 10th anniversary of the

year in which the participant began participating in the
plan occurs.

• The plan year in which the participant separates from
service.

Early retirement. Your plan can provide for payment
of retirement benefits before the normal retirement age. If
your plan offers an early retirement benefit, a participant
who separates from service before satisfying the early retirement age requirement is entitled to that benefit if the
participant meets both the following requirements.

• Satisfies the service requirement for the early retirement benefit.

• Separates from service with a nonforfeitable right to

an accrued benefit. The benefit, which may be actuarially reduced, is payable when the early retirement age
requirement is met.

Required minimum distributions (RMDs). Special
rules require minimum annual distributions from qualified
plans, generally beginning after age 73. See Required
Distributions under Distributions, later.
Survivor benefits. Defined benefit and money purchase
pension plans must provide automatic survivor benefits in
both the following forms.

• A qualified joint and survivor annuity for a vested participant who doesn't die before the annuity starting
date.

• A qualified pre-retirement survivor annuity for a vested
participant who dies before the annuity starting date
and who has a surviving spouse.

Publication 560 (2025)

• The participant doesn't choose benefits in the form of

Chapter 4

Loan secured by benefits. If automatic survivor benefits are required for a spouse under a plan, they must
consent to a loan that uses as security the accrued benefits in the plan.
Waiver of survivor benefits. Each plan participant
may be permitted to waive the joint and survivor annuity or
the pre-retirement survivor annuity (or both), but only if the
participant has the written consent of the spouse. The
plan must also allow the participant to withdraw the
waiver. The spouse's consent must be witnessed by a
plan representative or notary public.
Involuntary cash-out of benefits not more than dollar limit. A plan may provide for the immediate distribution of the participant's benefit under the plan if the
present value of the benefit isn't greater than $7,000.
However, the distribution can't be made after the annuity starting date unless the participant and the spouse or
surviving spouse of a participant who died (if automatic
survivor benefits are required for a spouse under the plan)
consent in writing to the distribution. If the present value is
greater than $7,000, the plan must have the written consent of the participant and the spouse or surviving spouse
(if automatic survivor benefits are required for a spouse
under the plan) for any immediate distribution of the benefit.
Benefits attributable to rollover contributions and earnings on them can be ignored in determining the present
value of these benefits.
A plan must provide for the automatic rollover of any
cash-out distribution of more than $1,000 to an individual
retirement account or annuity, unless the participant chooses otherwise. A section 402(f) notice must be sent prior
to an involuntary cash-out of an eligible rollover distribution. See Section 402(f) notice under Distributions, later,
for more details.
Consolidation, merger, or transfer of assets or liabilities. Your plan must provide that, in the case of any
merger or consolidation with, or transfer of assets or liabilities to, any other plan, each participant would (if the plan
then terminated) receive a benefit equal to or more than
the benefit they would have been entitled to just before the
merger, etc. (if the plan had then terminated).
Benefits must not be assigned or alienated. Your plan
must provide that a participant's or beneficiary's benefits
under the plan can't be taken away by any legal or equitable proceeding except as provided below or pursuant to
Qualified Plans

21

certain judgments or settlements against the participant
for violations of plan rules.
Exception for certain loans. A loan from the plan
(not from a third party) to a participant or beneficiary isn't
treated as an assignment or alienation if the loan is secured by the participant's accrued nonforfeitable benefit
and is exempt from the tax on prohibited transactions under section 4975(d)(1) or would be exempt if the participant were a disqualified person. A disqualified person is
defined later in this chapter under Prohibited Transactions.
Exception for a qualified domestic relations order
(QDRO). Compliance with a QDRO doesn't result in a
prohibited assignment or alienation of benefits.
Payments to an alternate payee under a QDRO before
the participant reaches age 591/2 aren't subject to the 10%
additional tax that would otherwise apply under certain circumstances. Benefits distributed to an alternate payee under a QDRO can be rolled over tax free to an individual retirement account or to an individual retirement annuity.
No benefit reduction for social security increases.
Your plan must not permit a benefit reduction for a
post-separation increase in the social security benefit level
or wage base for any participant or beneficiary who is receiving benefits under your plan, or who is separated from
service and has nonforfeitable rights to benefits. This rule
also applies to plans supplementing the benefits provided
by other federal or state laws.
Elective deferrals must be limited. If your plan provides for elective deferrals, it must limit those deferrals to
the amount in effect for that particular year. See Limit on
Elective Deferrals, later in this chapter.
Top-heavy plan requirements. A top-heavy plan is one
that mainly favors partners, sole proprietors, and other key
employees.
A plan is top-heavy for a plan year if, for the preceding
plan year, the total value of accrued benefits or account
balances of key employees is more than 60% of the total
value of accrued benefits or account balances of all employees. Additional requirements apply to a top-heavy
plan primarily to provide minimum benefits or contributions for non-key employees covered by the plan.
Most qualified plans, whether or not top-heavy, must
contain provisions that meet the top-heavy requirements
and will take effect in plan years in which the plans are
top-heavy. These qualification requirements for top-heavy
plans are explained in section 416 and its regulations.
SIMPLE and safe harbor 401(k) plan exception.
The top-heavy plan requirements don't apply to SIMPLE
401(k) plans, discussed earlier in chapter 3, or to safe harbor 401(k) plans that consist solely of safe harbor contributions, discussed later in this chapter. Qualified automatic contribution arrangements (QACAs) (discussed
later) also aren't subject to top-heavy requirements.

Setting up a Qualified Plan
There are two basic steps in setting up a qualified plan.
First, you adopt a written plan. Then, you invest the plan
assets.
You, the employer, are responsible for setting up and
maintaining the plan.
Tip: If you are self-employed, it isn't necessary to have
employees besides yourself to sponsor and set up a qualified plan. If you have employees, see Participation under
Qualification Rules, earlier.
Set-up deadline. To take a deduction for contributions
for a tax year, your plan must be set up (adopted) by the
last day of that year. If you are a sole proprietor with a new
section 401(k) plan that you adopted after the end of the
tax year that ends after or with the first plan year, and you
are the only participant, your elective deferrals must be
paid to the plan before the time for filing your return for that
tax year (determined without regard to any extensions) in
order for the elective deferrals to be treated as having
been made by the end of the first plan year.

Adopting a Written Plan
You must adopt a written plan. The plan can be an IRS
pre-approved plan offered by a sponsoring organization.
Or it can be an individually designed plan.
Written plan requirement. To qualify, the plan you set
up must be in writing and must be communicated to your
employees. The plan's provisions must be stated in the
plan. It isn't sufficient for the plan to merely refer to a requirement of the Internal Revenue Code.
IRS pre-approved plans. Most qualified plans follow a
standard form of plan approved by the IRS. An IRS
pre-approved plan is a plan, including a plan covering
self-employed individuals, that is made available by a provider for adoption by employers. Under the prior IRS
pre-approved plan program, a plan could be a master
plan, a prototype plan, or a volume submitter plan. Under
the restructured program, the three plan types were combined into one type called a pre-approved plan. IRS
pre-approved plans include both standardized plans and
nonstandardized plans. An IRS pre-approved plan may
use a single funding medium, for example, a trust or custodial account document, for the joint use of all adopting
employers or separate funding mediums established for
each adopting employer. An IRS pre-approved plan may
consist of an adoption agreement plan or a single document plan. For more information about IRS pre-approved
plans, see Revenue Procedure 2017-41, 2017-29 I.R.B.
92, available at IRS.gov/irb/2017-29_IRB#RP-2017-41.
Plan providers. The following organizations can generally provide IRS pre-approved plans.

• Banks (including some savings and loan associations
and federally insured credit unions).

22

Chapter 4

Qualified Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

• Trade or professional organizations.
• Insurance companies.
• Mutual funds.
• Law firms.
• Third-party administrators.

Minimum Funding
Requirement

Individually designed plan. If you prefer, you can set up
an individually designed plan to meet specific needs. Although advance IRS approval is not required, you can apply for approval by paying a fee and requesting a determination letter. You may need professional help for this. See
Revenue Procedure 2024-4, 2024-1 I.R.B. 160, available
at IRS.gov/irb/2024-4_IRB, as annually updated, that may
help you decide whether to apply for approval.
User fee. The fee mentioned earlier for requesting a
determination letter doesn't apply to employers who have
100 or fewer employees who received at least $5,000 of
compensation from the employer for the preceding year.
At least one of them must be a non-highly compensated
employee participating in the plan. The fee doesn't apply
to requests made by the later of the following dates.

In general, if your plan is a money purchase pension plan
or a defined benefit plan, you must actually pay enough
into the plan to satisfy the minimum funding standard for
each year. Determining the amount needed to satisfy the
minimum funding standard for a defined benefit plan is
complicated, and you should seek professional help in order to meet these contribution requirements. For information on this funding requirement, see section 430 and its
regulations.
Quarterly installments of required contributions. If
your plan is a defined benefit plan subject to the minimum
funding requirements, you must generally make quarterly
installment payments of the required contributions. If you
don't pay the full installments timely, you may have to pay
interest on any underpayment for the period of the underpayment.

• The end of the fifth plan year the plan is in effect.
• The end of any remedial amendment period for the

Due dates. The due dates for the installments are 15
days after the end of each quarter. For a calendar-year
plan, the installments are due April 15, July 15, October
15, and January 15 (of the following year).

The request can't be made by the provider of an IRS
pre-approved plan that intends to market to participating
employers.
For more information about whether the user fee applies, see Revenue Procedure 2020-4, 2020-1 I.R.B. 148,
available at IRS.gov/irb/2020-01_IRB, as may be annually
updated; Notice 2017-1, 2017-2 I.R.B. 367, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2017-02_IRB; and Form 8717.

Installment percentage. Each quarterly installment
must be 25% of the required annual payment.

plan that begins within the first 5 plan years.

Extended period for making contributions. Additional contributions required to satisfy the minimum funding requirement for a plan year will be considered timely if
made by 81/2 months after the end of that year.

Contributions

Investing Plan Assets
In setting up a qualified plan, you arrange how the plan's
funds will be used to build its assets.

• You can establish a trust or custodial account to invest
the funds.

• You, the trust, or the custodial account can buy an an-

nuity contract from an insurance company. Life insurance can be included only if it is incidental to the retirement benefits.
You set up a trust by a legal instrument (written document). You may need professional help to do this.
You can set up a custodial account with a bank, savings
and loan association, credit union, or other person who
can act as the plan trustee.
You don't need a trust or custodial account, although
you can have one, to invest the plan's funds in annuity
contracts or face-amount certificates. If anyone other than
a trustee holds them, however, the contracts or certificates
must state they aren't transferable.

A qualified plan is generally funded by your contributions.
However, employees participating in the plan may be permitted to make contributions, and you may be permitted to
make contributions on your own behalf. See Employee
Contributions and Elective Deferrals, later.
Contributions deadline. You can make deductible contributions for a tax year up to the due date of your return
(plus extensions) for that year.
Self-employed individual. You can make contributions
on behalf of yourself only if you have net earnings (compensation) from self-employment in the trade or business
for which the plan was set up. Your net earnings must be
from your personal services, not from your investments. If
you have a net loss from self-employment, you can't make
contributions for yourself for the year, even if you can contribute for common-law employees based on their compensation.

Other plan requirements. For information on other important plan requirements, see Qualification Rules, earlier
in this chapter.
Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 4

Qualified Plans

23

Employer Contributions
There are certain limits on the contributions and other annual additions you can make each year for plan participants. There are also limits on the amount you can deduct. See Deduction Limits, later.

Limits on Contributions and Benefits
Your plan must provide that contributions or benefits can't
exceed certain limits. The limits differ depending on
whether your plan is a defined benefit plan or a defined
contribution plan.
Defined benefit plan. For 2025, the annual benefit for a
participant under a defined benefit plan can't exceed the
lesser of the following amounts.
1. 100% of the participant's average compensation for
their highest 3 consecutive calendar years.
2. $280,000 for 2025 ($290,000 for 2026).
Defined contribution plan. For 2025, a defined contribution plan's annual contributions and other additions (excluding earnings) to the account of a participant can't exceed the lesser of the following amounts.
1. 100% of the participant's compensation.
2. $70,000 for 2025 ($72,000 for 2026).
Catch-up contributions (discussed later under Limit on
Elective Deferrals) aren't subject to the above limit.

Employee Contributions
Participants may be permitted to make nondeductible contributions to a plan in addition to your contributions. Even
though these employee contributions aren't deductible,
the earnings on them are tax free until distributed in later
years. Also, these contributions must satisfy the actual
contribution percentage (ACP) test of section 401(m)(2), a
nondiscrimination test that applies to employee contributions and matching contributions. See Regulations sections 1.401(k)-2 and 1.401(m)-2 for further guidance relating to the nondiscrimination rules under sections 401(k)
and 401(m) respectively.

When Contributions Are Considered
Made
You generally apply your plan contributions to the year in
which you make them. But you can apply them to the previous year if all the following requirements are met.
1. You make them by the due date of your tax return for
the previous year (plus extensions).
2. The plan was established by the end of the previous
year.
3. The plan treats the contributions as though it had received them on the last day of the previous year.
4. You do either of the following.
24

Chapter 4

a. You specify in writing to the plan administrator or
trustee that the contributions apply to the previous
year.
b. You deduct the contributions on your tax return for
the previous year. A partnership shows contributions for partners on Form 1065.
Employer's promissory note. Your promissory note
made out to the plan isn't a payment that qualifies for the
deduction. Also, issuing this note is a prohibited transaction subject to tax. See Prohibited Transactions, later.

Employer Deduction
You can usually deduct, subject to limits, contributions you
make to a qualified plan, including those made for your
own retirement. The contributions (and earnings and
gains on them) are generally tax free until distributed by
the plan.

Deduction Limits
The deduction limit for your contributions to a qualified
plan depends on the kind of plan you have.
Defined contribution plans. The deduction for contributions to a defined contribution plan (profit-sharing plan or
money purchase pension plan) can't be more than 25% of
the compensation paid (or accrued) during the year to
your eligible employees participating in the plan. If you are
self-employed, you must reduce this limit in figuring the
deduction for contributions you make for your own account. See Deduction Limit for Self-Employed Individuals,
later.
When figuring the deduction limit, the following rules
apply.

• Elective deferrals (discussed later) aren't subject to
the limit.

• Compensation includes elective deferrals.
• The maximum compensation that can be taken into
account for each employee in 2025 is $350,000
($360,000 in 2026).

Defined benefit plans. The deduction for contributions
to a defined benefit plan is based on actuarial assumptions and computations. Consequently, an actuary must
figure your deduction limit.
Caution: In figuring the deduction for contributions, you
can't take into account any contributions or benefits that
are more than the limits discussed earlier under Limits on
Contributions and Benefits.

Deduction Limit for Self-Employed
Individuals
If you make contributions for yourself, you need to make a
special computation to figure your maximum deduction for
Qualified Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

Table 4-1. Carryover of Excess Contributions Illustrated—Profit-Sharing Plan (000's omitted)

1

$100
165
100
100

$250
100
125
150

$0
0
25
40

$100
100
125
140

.

Excess
contribution
carryover
available at
end of year

.

Total
deduction
including
carryovers

.

.

$1,000
400
500
600

Deductible
limit for current year
(25% of compensation)

.

2022 . . . . . . . . .
2023 . . . . . . . . .
2024 . . . . . . . . .
2025 . . . . . . . . .

Employer
contribution

.

Year

Participants'
compensation

Excess
contribution
carryover
used1

$0
65
40
0

There were no carryovers from years before 2022.

these contributions. Compensation is your net earnings
from self-employment, defined in chapter 1. This definition
takes into account both the following items.

Excise Tax for Nondeductible
(Excess) Contributions

• The deduction for the deductible part of your self-em-

If you contribute more than your deduction limit to a retirement plan, you have made nondeductible contributions
and you may be liable for an excise tax. In general, a 10%
excise tax applies to nondeductible contributions made to
qualified pension and profit-sharing plans and to SEPs.

ployment tax.

• The deduction for contributions on your behalf to the
plan.

The deductions for your own contributions and your net
earnings depend on each other. For this reason, you determine the deduction for your own contributions indirectly
by reducing the contribution rate called for in your plan. To
do this, use either the Rate Table for Self-Employed or the
Rate Worksheet for Self-Employed in chapter 5. Then, figure your maximum deduction by using the Deduction
Worksheet for Self-Employed in chapter 5.

Where To Deduct Contributions
Deduct the contributions you make for your common-law
employees on your tax return. For example, sole proprietors deduct them on Schedule C (Form 1040) or Schedule F (Form 1040), partnerships deduct them on Form
1065, and corporations deduct them on Form 1120 or
1120-S.
Sole proprietors and partners deduct contributions for
themselves on line 16 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040). (If you
are a partner, contributions for yourself are shown on the
Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) you get from the partnership.)

Carryover of Excess Contributions
If you contribute more to a plan than you can deduct for
the year, you can carry over and deduct the difference in
later years, combined with your contributions for those
years. Your combined deduction in a later year is limited to
25% of the participating employees' compensation for that
year. For purposes of this limit, a SEP is treated as a
profit-sharing (defined contribution) plan. However, this
percentage limit must be reduced to figure your maximum
deduction for contributions you make for yourself. See Deduction Limit for Self-Employed Individuals, earlier. The
amount you carry over and deduct may be subject to the
excise tax discussed next.
Table 4-1. Carryover of Excess Contributions Illustrated
Profit-Sharing Plan illustrates the carryover of excess contributions to a profit-sharing plan.
Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 4

Special rule for self-employed individuals. The 10%
excise tax doesn't apply to any contribution made to meet
the minimum funding requirements in a money purchase
pension plan or a defined benefit plan. Even if that contribution is more than your earned income from the trade or
business for which the plan is set up, the difference isn't
subject to this excise tax. See Minimum Funding Requirement, earlier.
Reporting the tax. You must report the tax on your nondeductible contributions on Form 5330. Form 5330 includes a computation of the tax. See the separate instructions for completing the form.

Elective Deferrals (401(k)
Plans)
Your qualified plan can include a cash or deferred arrangement under which participants can choose to have
you contribute part of their before-tax compensation to the
plan rather than receive the compensation in cash. A plan
with this type of arrangement is popularly known as a
401(k) plan. (As a self-employed individual participating in
the plan, you can contribute part of your before-tax net
earnings from the business.) This contribution is called an
elective deferral because participants choose (elect) to
defer receipt of the money.
In general, a qualified plan can include a cash or deferred arrangement only if the qualified plan is one of the following plans.

• A profit-sharing plan.
• A money purchase pension plan in existence on June
27, 1974, that included a salary reduction arrangement on that date.

Partnership. A partnership can have a 401(k) plan.
Qualified Plans

25

Restriction on conditions of participation. Effective
for plan years beginning after 2020, a 401(k) plan can’t require, as a condition of participation, that an employee
complete a period of service that extends beyond the
close of the earlier of (a) 1 year of service, or (b) the first
period of 3 consecutive 12-month periods (excluding
12-month periods beginning before 2021) during each of
which the employee has completed at least 500 hours of
service. Effective for plan years beginning after 2024, 3
consecutive 12-month periods are reduced to 2 consecutive 12-month periods.
Matching contributions. If your plan permits, you can
make matching contributions for an employee who makes
an elective deferral to your 401(k) plan. For example, the
plan might provide that you will contribute 50 cents for
each dollar your participating employees choose to defer
under your 401(k) plan. Matching contributions are generally subject to the ACP test discussed earlier under Employee Contributions.
Nonelective contributions. You can also make contributions (other than matching contributions) for your participating employees without giving them the choice to take
cash instead. These are called nonelective contributions.
Employee compensation limit. No more than $350,000
of the employee's compensation can be taken into account when figuring contributions other than elective deferrals in 2025. This limit is $360,000 for 2026.
SIMPLE 401(k) plan. If you had 100 or fewer employees
who earned $5,000 or more in compensation during the
preceding year, you may be able to set up a SIMPLE
401(k) plan. A SIMPLE 401(k) plan isn't subject to the
nondiscrimination and top-heavy plan requirements discussed earlier under Qualification Rules. For details about
SIMPLE 401(k) plans, see SIMPLE 401(k) Plan in chapter 3.
Distributions. Certain rules apply to distributions from
401(k) plans. See Distributions From 401(k) Plans, later.

Limit on Elective Deferrals
There is a limit on the amount an employee can defer
each year under these plans. This limit applies without regard to community property laws. Your plan must provide
that your employees can't defer more than the limit that
applies for a particular year. The basic limit on elective deferrals is $23,500 for 2025 and increases to $24,500 for
2026. This limit applies to all salary reduction contributions and elective deferrals. If, in conjunction with other
plans, the deferral limit is exceeded, the difference is included in the employee's gross income.
Catch-up contributions. A 401(k) plan can permit participants who are age 50 or over at the end of the calendar
year to also make catch-up contributions. The catch-up
contribution limit is $7,500 for 2025 and $8,000 for 2026.
Elective deferrals aren't treated as catch-up contributions
for 2025 until they exceed the $23,500 limit ($24,500 limit
26

Chapter 4

for 2026), the ADP test limit of section 401(k)(3), or the
plan limit (if any). However, the catch-up contributions a
participant can make for a year can't exceed the lesser of
the following amounts.

• The catch-up contribution limit.
• The excess of the participant's compensation over the
elective deferrals that aren't catch-up contributions.

Beginning in 2025, section 109 of the SECURE 2.0 Act
of 2022 permits 401(k) plans to allow participants to make
a higher amount of catch-up contributions in a tax year in
which they attain age 60, 61, 62, or 63. For 2025 and
2026, the higher limit on catch-up contributions to 401(k)
plans (excluding SIMPLE plans) for such participants is
$11,250.
Treatment of contributions. Your contributions to your
own 401(k) plan are generally deductible by you for the
year they are contributed to the plan. Matching or nonelective contributions made to the plan are also deductible
by you in the year of contribution.
Your employees' elective deferrals other than designated Roth contributions are tax free until distributed from
the plan. Elective deferrals are included in wages for social security, Medicare, and FUTA taxes.
Forfeiture. Employees have a nonforfeitable right at all
times to their accrued benefit attributable to elective deferrals.
Reporting on Form W-2. Don't include elective deferrals
in the “Wages, tips, other compensation” box of Form
W-2. You must, however, include them in the “Social security wages” and “Medicare wages and tips” boxes. You
must also include them in box 12. Check the “Retirement
plan” checkbox in box 13. For more information, see the
Form W-2 instructions.

Automatic Enrollment
Your 401(k) plan can have an automatic enrollment feature. Under this feature, you can automatically reduce an
employee's pay by a fixed percentage and contribute that
amount to the 401(k) plan on their behalf unless the employee affirmatively chooses not to have their pay reduced
or chooses to have it reduced by a different percentage.
These contributions are elective deferrals. An automatic
enrollment feature will encourage employees' saving for
retirement and will help your plan pass nondiscrimination
testing (if applicable). For more information, see Pub.
4674.
Caution: If your 401(k) plan is established on or after December 29, 2022, your plan must have an automatic enrollment feature unless an exception applies. See section II.A of Notice 2024-2, 2024-2 I.R.B. 316, at
IRS.gov/irb/2024–02, for additional information.
Eligible automatic contribution arrangement (EACA).
Under an EACA, a participant is treated as having elected
to have the employer make contributions in an amount
equal to a uniform percentage of compensation. This
Qualified Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

automatic election will remain in place until the participant
specifically elects not to have such deferral percentage
made (or elects a different percentage). There is no required deferral percentage.
Withdrawals. Under an EACA, you may allow participants to withdraw their automatic contributions to the plan
if certain conditions are met.

4. It must increase to at least 4% in the following plan
year.
5. It must increase to at least 5% in the following plan
year.
6. It must increase to at least 6% in subsequent plan
years.

• The participant must elect the withdrawal no later than

Matching or nonelective contributions. Under the
terms of the QACA, you must make either matching or
nonelective contributions according to the following terms.

• The participant must withdraw the entire amount of

1. Matching contributions. You must make matching
contributions on behalf of each non-highly compensated employee in the following amounts.

If the plan allows withdrawals under the EACA, the
amount of the withdrawal other than the amount of any
designated Roth contributions must be included in the
employee's gross income for the tax year in which the distribution is made. The additional 10% tax on early distributions won't apply to the distribution.

a. An amount equal to 100% of elective deferrals, up
to 1% of compensation.

90 days after the date of the first elective contributions
under the EACA.
EACA default contributions, including any earnings
thereon.

Notice requirement. Under an EACA, employees
must be given written notice of the terms of the EACA
within a reasonable period of time before each plan year.
The notice must be written in a manner calculated to be
understood by the average employee and be sufficiently
accurate and comprehensive in order to apprise the employee of their rights and obligations under the EACA. The
notice must include an explanation of the employee's right
to elect not to have elective contributions made on their
behalf, or to elect a different percentage, and the employee must be given a reasonable period of time after receipt of the notice before the first elective contribution is
made. The notice must also explain how contributions will
be invested in the absence of an investment election by
the employee.
Qualified automatic contribution arrangement
(QACA). A QACA is a type of safe harbor plan. It contains
an automatic enrollment feature, and mandatory employer
contributions are required. If your plan includes a QACA, it
won't be subject to the ADP test (discussed later) or the
top-heavy requirements (discussed earlier). Additionally,
your plan won't be subject to the ACP test if certain additional requirements are met. Under a QACA, each employee who is eligible to participate in the plan will be treated as having elected to make elective deferral
contributions equal to a certain default percentage of compensation. In order to not have default elective deferrals
made, an employee must make an affirmative election
specifying a deferral percentage (including zero, if desired). If an employee doesn't make an affirmative election, the default deferral percentage must meet the following conditions.
1. It must be applied uniformly.
2. It must not exceed 10%. (After 2019, the maximum
default deferral percentage increases to 15%.)

b. An amount equal to 50% of elective deferrals, from
1% up to 6% of compensation.
Other formulas may be used as long as they are at
least as favorable to non-highly compensated employees. The rate of matching contributions for highly
compensated employees, including yourself, must not
exceed the rates for non-highly compensated employees.
2. Nonelective contributions. You must make nonelective contributions on behalf of every non-highly compensated employee eligible to participate in the plan,
regardless of whether they elected to participate, in
an amount equal to at least 3% of their compensation.
Vesting requirements. All accrued benefits attributed
to matching or nonelective contributions under the QACA
must be 100% vested for all employees who complete 2
years of service. These contributions are subject to special withdrawal restrictions, discussed later.
Notice requirements. Each employee eligible to participate in the QACA must receive written notice of their
rights and obligations under the QACA within a reasonable period before each plan year. The notice must be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the average employee, and it must be accurate and
comprehensive. The notice must explain their right to elect
not to have elective contributions made on their behalf, or
to have contributions made at a different percentage than
the default percentage. Additionally, the notice must explain how contributions will be invested in the absence of
any investment election by the employee. The employee
must have a reasonable period of time after receiving the
notice to make such contribution and investment elections
prior to the first contributions under the QACA.
If you make nonelective contributions under the QACA
and you either don't make any matching contributions or
you make matching contributions that are intended to satisfy the ACP test, then this QACA notice requirement
doesn’t apply. However, this exception doesn’t apply to the
EACA notice requirement, discussed earlier.

3. It must be at least 3% in the first plan year it applies to
an employee and through the end of the following
year.
Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 4

Qualified Plans

27

Treatment of Excess Deferrals
If the total of an employee's deferrals is more than the limit
for 2025, the employee can have the difference (called an
excess deferral) paid out of any of the plans that permit
these distributions. The employee must notify the plan by
April 15, 2026 (or an earlier date specified in the plan), of
the amount to be paid from each plan. The plan must then
pay the employee that amount, plus earnings on the
amount through the end of 2025, by April 15, 2026.
Excess withdrawn by April 15. If the employee takes
out the excess deferral by April 15, 2026, it isn't reported
again by including it in the employee's gross income for
2026. However, any income earned in 2025 on the excess
deferral taken out is taxable in the tax year in which it is
taken out. The distribution isn't subject to the additional
10% tax on early distributions.
If the employee takes out part of the excess deferral
and the income on it, the distribution is treated as made
proportionately from the excess deferral and the income.
Even if the employee takes out the excess deferral by
April 15, the amount will be considered for purposes of
nondiscrimination testing requirements of the plan, unless
the distributed amount is for a non-highly compensated
employee who participates in only one employer's 401(k)
plan or plans.
Excess not withdrawn by April 15. If the employee
doesn't take out the excess deferral by April 15, 2026, the
excess, though taxable in 2025, isn't included in the employee's cost basis in figuring the taxable amount of any
eventual distributions under the plan. In effect, an excess
deferral left in the plan is taxed twice, once when contributed and again when distributed. Also, if the employee's
excess deferral is allowed to stay in the plan and the employee participates in no other employer's plan, the plan
can be disqualified.
Reporting corrective distributions on Form 1099-R.
Report corrective distributions of excess deferrals (including any earnings) on Form 1099-R. For specific information about reporting corrective distributions, see the Instructions for Forms 1099-R and 5498.
Tax on excess contributions of highly compensated
employees. The law provides tests to detect discrimination in a plan. If tests, such as the ADP test (see section
401(k)(3)) and the ACP test (see section 401(m)(2)), show
that contributions for highly compensated employees are
more than the test limits for these contributions, the employer may have to pay a 10% excise tax. Report the tax
on Form 5330. The ADP test doesn't apply to a safe harbor 401(k) plan (discussed next) or to a QACA. Also, the
ACP test doesn't apply to these plans if certain additional
requirements are met.
The tax for the year is 10% of the excess contributions
for the plan year ending in your tax year. Excess contributions are elective deferrals, employee contributions, or
employer matching or nonelective contributions that are
more than the amount permitted under the ADP test or the
ACP test.
28

Chapter 4

See Regulations sections 1.401(k)-2 and 1.401(m)-2
for further guidance relating to the nondiscrimination rules
under sections 401(k) and 401(m) respectively.
Caution: If the plan fails the ADP or ACP testing, and the
failure isn't corrected by the end of the next plan year, the
plan can be disqualified.

Safe Harbor 401(k) Plan
If you meet the requirements for a safe harbor 401(k) plan,
you don't have to satisfy the ADP test or the ACP test if
certain additional requirements are met. For your plan to
be a safe harbor plan, you must meet the following conditions.
1. Matching or nonelective contributions. You must
make matching or nonelective contributions according
to one of the following formulas.
a. Matching contributions. You must make matching contributions according to the following rules.
i. You must contribute an amount equal to 100%
of each non-highly compensated employee's
elective deferrals, up to 3% of compensation.
ii. You must contribute an amount equal to 50%
of each non-highly compensated employee's
elective deferrals, from 3% up to 5% of compensation.
iii. The rate of matching contributions for highly
compensated employees, including yourself,
must not exceed the rates for non-highly compensated employees.
b. Nonelective contributions. You must make nonelective contributions, without regard to whether
the employee made elective deferrals, on behalf of
all non-highly compensated employees eligible to
participate in the plan, equal to at least 3% of the
employee's compensation.
These mandatory matching and nonelective contributions must be immediately 100% vested and are
subject to special withdrawal restrictions.
2. Notice requirement. You must give eligible employees written notice of their rights and obligations with
regard to contributions under the plan within a reasonable period before the plan year.
If you make nonelective contributions and you either
don't make any matching contributions or you make
matching contributions that are intended to satisfy the
ACP test, then this notice requirement doesn’t apply. However, this exception doesn’t apply to the EACA notice requirement, discussed earlier.
The other requirements for a 401(k) plan, including
withdrawal and vesting rules, must also be met for your
plan to qualify as a safe harbor 401(k) plan.

Qualified Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

Qualified Roth Contribution
Program

An employee's nonexclusion period for a plan is the
5-tax-year period beginning with the earlier of the following tax years.

• The first tax year in which a contribution was made to
their Roth account in the plan.

Under this program, an eligible employee can designate
all or a portion of their elective deferrals as after-tax Roth
contributions. These contributions, which are made in lieu
of elective deferrals, are designated Roth contributions.
Unlike other elective deferrals, designated Roth contributions aren't excluded from an employee's gross income.

• If a rollover contribution was made to the employee's

In addition, an eligible employee may be permitted to
designate certain nonelective contributions or matching
contributions as Roth contributions. These contributions
are also includible in an employee's gross income.

Rollover. A rollover from another account can be made to
a designated Roth account in the same plan. For additional information on these in-plan Roth rollovers, see Notice 2010-84, 2010-51 I.R.B. 872, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2010-51_IRB/ar11.html; and Notice 2013-74, 2013-52
I.R.B. 819, available at IRS.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb13-52_IRB.
A distribution from a designated Roth account can only be
rolled over to another designated Roth account or a Roth
IRA. Rollover amounts don't apply toward the annual deferral limit.

Designated Roth contributions, designated Roth nonelective contributions, and designated Roth matching contributions must be maintained in a separate Roth account.
However, qualified distributions from a Roth account are
excluded from an employee's gross income.

Elective Deferrals

Reporting Requirements

Under a qualified Roth contribution program, the amount
of elective deferrals that an employee may designate as a
Roth contribution is limited to the maximum amount of
elective deferrals excludable from gross income for the
year (for 2025, $23,500 if under age 50 and $31,000 if age
50 or over (but not attaining age 60, 61, 62, or 63);
amounts increase in 2026 to $24,500 and $32,500, respectively) less the total amount of the employee's elective deferrals not designated as Roth contributions.
Designated Roth contributions are treated the same as
pre-tax elective deferrals for most purposes, including:

• The annual individual elective deferral limit (total of all
designated Roth contributions and traditional, pre-tax
elective deferrals) of $23,500 for 2025 ($24,500 for
2026), with an additional $7,500 if age 50 or over (but
not attaining age 60, 61, 62, or 63) ($8,000 for 2026).

• Determining the maximum employee and employer

annual contributions of the lesser of 100% of compensation or $70,000 for 2025 ($72,000 for 2026);

• Nondiscrimination testing;
• Required distributions; and
• Elective deferrals not taken into account for purposes
of deduction limits.

You must report a designated Roth contribution on Form
W-2. See the Form W-2 instructions for detailed information.
You must report a designated Roth nonelective contribution or a designated Roth matching contribution on
Form 1099-R for the year in which the contribution is allocated. You must also report a distribution from a Roth account on Form 1099-R. See the Form 1099-R instructions
for detailed information.

Distributions
Amounts paid to plan participants from a qualified plan are
called distributions. Distributions may be nonperiodic,
such as lump-sum distributions, or periodic, such as annuity payments. Also, certain loans may be treated as distributions. See Loans Treated as Distributions in Pub. 575.

Required Distributions
A qualified plan must provide that each participant will either:

• Receive their entire interest (benefits) in the plan by
the required beginning date (defined later), or

Qualified Distributions

• Begin receiving regular periodic distributions by the

A qualified distribution is a distribution that is made after
the employee's nonexclusion period and:

• On or after the employee reaches age 591/2,
• On account of the employee's being disabled, or
• On or after the employee's death.
Publication 560 (2025)

designated Roth account from a designated Roth account previously established for the employee under
another plan, then the first tax year in which a contribution was made to the previously established designated Roth account.

Chapter 4

required beginning date in annual amounts figured to
distribute the participant's entire interest (benefits)
over their life expectancy or over the joint life expectancies of the participant and the designated beneficiary (or over a shorter period).

These distribution rules apply individually to each qualified plan. You can't satisfy the requirement for one plan by
Qualified Plans

29

taking a distribution from another. The plan must provide
that these rules override any inconsistent distribution options previously offered.
Minimum distribution. If the account balance of a qualified plan participant is to be distributed (other than as an
annuity), the plan administrator must figure the minimum
amount required to be distributed each distribution calendar year. This minimum is figured by dividing the account
balance by the applicable life expectancy. The plan administrator can use the life expectancy tables in Pub.
590-B for this purpose. For more information on figuring
the minimum distribution, see Tax on Excess Accumulation in Pub. 575.
Required beginning date. Generally, each participant
must receive their entire benefits in the plan or begin to receive periodic distributions of benefits from the plan by the
required beginning date.
A participant must begin to receive distributions from
their qualified retirement plan by April 1 of the first year after the later of the following years.
1. The calendar year in which the participant reaches
age 73.
2. The calendar year in which he or she retires from employment with the employer maintaining the plan.
However, the plan may require the participant to begin receiving distributions by April 1 of the year after the participant reaches age 73 even if the participant has not retired.
If the participant is a 5% owner of the employer maintaining the plan, the participant must begin receiving distributions by April 1 of the first year after the calendar year in
which the participant reaches age 73. For more information, see Tax on Excess Accumulation in Pub. 575 about
distributions prior to 2020.
Distributions after the starting year. The distribution
required to be made by April 1 is treated as a distribution
for the starting year. (The starting year is the year in which
the participant meets (1) or (2) under Required beginning
date, earlier, whichever applies.) After the starting year,
the participant must receive the required distribution for
each year by December 31 of that year. If no distribution is
made in the starting year, required distributions for 2 years
must be made in the next year (one by April 1 and one by
December 31).
Distributions after participant's death. See Pub.
575 for the special rules covering distributions made after
the death of a participant.
Designated Roth account exception. The lifetime
required distribution rules described in this section do not
apply to amounts in a designated Roth account in a qualified plan. Required distributions from a designated Roth
account are only required following a participant’s death.
For this purpose, a qualified plan includes qualified retirement plans, tax-sheltered annuities and custodial accounts, retirement income accounts, and eligible deferred
compensation plans under section 457(b). Therefore, the
reference to a participant’s “entire interest” or “entire
30

Chapter 4

benefits” in this section do not include amounts in a designated Roth account.

Distributions From 401(k) Plans
Generally, distributions can't be made until one of the following occurs.

• The employee retires, dies, becomes disabled, or otherwise severs employment.

• The plan ends and no other defined contribution plan
is established or continued.

• In the case of a 401(k) plan that is part of a profit-sharing plan, the employee reaches age 591/2 or suffers financial hardship. For the rules on hardship distributions, including the limits on them, see Regulations
section 1.401(k)-1(d).

• The employee becomes eligible for a qualified reservist distribution (defined next).

Caution: Certain distributions listed above may be subject to the tax on early distributions discussed later.
Qualified reservist distributions. A qualified reservist
distribution is a distribution from an IRA or an elective deferral account made after September 11, 2001, to a military reservist or a member of the National Guard who has
been called to active duty for at least 180 days or for an
indefinite period. All or part of a qualified reservist distribution can be repaid to an IRA. The additional 10% tax on
early distributions doesn't apply to a qualified reservist
distribution.

Tax Treatment of Distributions
Distributions from a qualified plan minus a prorated part of
any cost basis are subject to income tax in the year they
are distributed. Because most recipients have no cost basis, a distribution is generally fully taxable. An exception is
a distribution that is properly rolled over as discussed under Rollover next.
The tax treatment of distributions depends on whether
they are made periodically over several years or life (periodic distributions) or are nonperiodic distributions. See
Taxation of Periodic Payments and Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments in Pub. 575 for a detailed description of
how distributions are taxed, including the 10-year tax option or capital gain treatment of a lump-sum distribution.
Note: A recipient of a distribution from a designated
Roth account will have a cost basis because designated
Roth contributions are made on an after-tax basis. Also, a
distribution from a designated Roth account is entirely tax
free if certain conditions are met. See Qualified distributions under Qualified Roth Contribution Program, earlier.
Rollover. The recipient of an eligible rollover distribution
from a qualified plan can defer the tax on it by rolling it
over into a traditional IRA or another eligible retirement
plan. However, it may be subject to withholding, as
discussed under Withholding requirement, later. A rollover
Qualified Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

can also be made to a Roth IRA, in which case any previously untaxed amounts are includible in gross income unless the rollover is from a designated Roth account.
Eligible rollover distribution. This is a distribution of
all or any part of an employee's balance in a qualified retirement plan that isn't any of the following.
1. An RMD. See Required Distributions, earlier.
2. Any of a series of substantially equal payments made
at least once a year over any of the following periods.
a. The employee's life or life expectancy.
b. The joint lives or life expectancies of the employee
and beneficiary.
c. A period of 10 years or longer.

• For periodic distributions, withholding is based on their
treatment as wages.

• For nonperiodic distributions, 10% of the taxable part

3. A hardship distribution.

is withheld.

4. Loans treated as distributions.
5. Dividends on employer securities.
6. The cost of any life insurance coverage provided under a qualified retirement plan.
7. Similar items designated by the IRS in published guidance. See, for example, the Instructions for Forms
1099-R and 5498.
Rollover of nontaxable amounts. You may be able to
roll over the nontaxable part of a distribution to another
qualified retirement plan or a section 403(b) plan, or to an
IRA. If the rollover is to a qualified retirement plan or a section 403(b) plan that separately accounts for the taxable
and nontaxable parts of the rollover, the transfer must be
made through a direct (trustee-to-trustee) rollover. If the
rollover is to an IRA, the transfer can be made by any rollover method.
Note: A distribution from a designated Roth account
can be rolled over to another designated Roth account or
to a Roth IRA. If the rollover is to a Roth IRA, it can be rolled over by any rollover method, but if the rollover is to another designated Roth account, it must be rolled over directly (trustee-to-trustee).
More information. For more information about rollovers, see Rollovers in Pubs. 575 and 590-A. For rules on
rolling over distributions that contain nontaxable amounts,
see Notice 2014-54, 2014-41 I.R.B. 670, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2014-41_IRB/ar11.html. For guidance on rolling money into a qualified plan, see Revenue Ruling
2014-9, 2014-17 I.R.B. 975, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2014-17_IRB/ar05.html.
Withholding requirement. If, during a year, a qualified
plan pays to a participant one or more eligible rollover distributions (defined earlier) that are reasonably expected to
total $200 or more, the payor must withhold 20% of the
taxable portion of each distribution for federal income tax.

Publication 560 (2025)

Exceptions. If, instead of having the distribution paid
to them, the participant chooses to have the plan pay it directly to an IRA or another eligible retirement plan (a direct
rollover), no withholding is required.
If the distribution isn't an eligible rollover distribution,
defined earlier, the 20% withholding requirement doesn't
apply. Other withholding rules apply to distributions that
aren't eligible rollover distributions, such as long-term periodic distributions and required distributions (periodic or
nonperiodic). However, the participant can choose not to
have tax withheld from these distributions. If the participant doesn't make this choice, the following withholding
rules apply.

Chapter 4

Estimated tax payments. If no income tax is withheld
or not enough tax is withheld, the recipient of a distribution
may have to make estimated tax payments. For more information, see Withholding Tax and Estimated Tax in Pub.
575.
Section 402(f) notice. If a distribution is an eligible rollover distribution, as defined earlier, you must provide a
written notice to the recipient that explains the following
rules regarding such distributions.
1. That the distribution may be directly transferred to an
eligible retirement plan and information about which
distributions are eligible for this direct transfer.
2. That tax will be withheld from the distribution if it isn't
directly transferred to an eligible retirement plan.
3. That the distribution won't be subject to tax if transferred to an eligible retirement plan within 60 days after
the date the recipient receives the distribution.
4. Certain other rules that may be applicable.
Notice 2026-13, 2026-06 I.R.B. 499, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2026-06_IRB, contains two updated safe harbor section 402(f) notices that plan administrators may
provide recipients of eligible rollover distributions.
Timing of notice. The notice must generally be provided no less than 30 days and no more than 180 days before the date of a distribution.
Method of notice. The written notice must be provided individually to each distributee of an eligible rollover
distribution. Posting of the notice isn't sufficient. However,
the written requirement may be satisfied through the use
of electronic media if certain additional conditions are met.
See Regulations section 1.401(a)-21.
Tax on failure to give notice. Failure to give a section
402(f) notice will result in a tax of $100 for each failure,
with a total not exceeding $50,000 per calendar year. The
tax won't be imposed if it is shown that such failure is due
to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect.

Qualified Plans

31

Tax on Early Distributions

• Made as a distribution for a victim of domestic vio-

If a distribution is made to an employee under the plan before they reach age 591/2 (early distributions), the employee may have to pay a 10% additional tax on the distribution. This tax applies to the amount received that the
employee must include in gross income.

• Made as a distribution for certain emergency personal

lence

Exceptions. The 10% additional tax won't apply to the
following early distributions:

• Made to a beneficiary (or to the estate of the employee) on or after the death of the employee.

• Made to an employee having a disability within the
meaning of section 72(m)(7).

• Made as part of a series of substantially equal peri-

odic payments beginning after separation from service
and made at least annually for the life or life expectancy of the employee or the joint lives or life expectancies of the employee and their designated beneficiary.
(The payments under this exception, except in the
case of death or disability, must continue for at least 5
years or until the employee reaches age 591/2, whichever is the longer period.)

• Made from a qualified retirement plan other than an

IRA to an employee after separation from service if the
separation occurred during or after the calendar year
in which the employee reached age 55.

• Made from a governmental plan after a qualified public
safety employee separates from service and has
reached the earlier of age 50 or attainment of 25 years
of service under the plan.

• Made from a private sector plan made after a fire-

fighter separates from service and has reached the
earlier of age 50 or attainment of 25 years of service
under the plan.

• Made from a qualified retirement plan other than an
IRA to an alternate payee under a QDRO.

• Made from an IRA to an employee for medical care up
to the amount allowable as a medical expense deduction (determined without regard to whether the employee itemizes deductions).

• Timely made to reduce excess contributions under a
401(k) plan.

• Timely made to reduce excess employee or matching
employer contributions (excess aggregate contributions).

• Timely made to reduce excess elective deferrals.
• Made because of an IRS levy on the plan.
• Made as a qualified reservist distribution.
• Made as a permissible withdrawal from an EACA.
• Made as a qualified birth or adoption distribution.
• Made as a qualified disaster distribution.
• Made to an individual who has been certified by a

expenses.

• Made from an IRA as a distribution to buy, build, or rebuild a first home.

• Made from an IRA as a distribution for your qualified
higher education expenses.

• Timely made to reduce excess IRA contributions pursuant to section 408(d)(4).

Most of these exceptions are explained below.
Disabled. You are considered disabled if you can furnish
proof that you can't do any substantial gainful activity because of your physical or mental condition. A physician
must determine that your condition can be expected to result in death or be of a long, continued, or indefinite duration.
Distributions to terminally ill individuals. You may be
able to take a distribution from a retirement plan before
reaching age 59 1/2 and not have to pay the 10% additional
tax on early distributions if you receive the distribution on
or after the date you have received a certification by a
physician that you are terminally ill.
Terminally ill individual. You are considered terminally
ill if you are certified by a physician as having an illness or
physical condition which can reasonably be expected to
result in death in 84 months or less after the date of the
certification. See Notice 2024-02, 2024-02 I.R.B. 316,
available at IRS.gov/irb/2024-02, for more information.
Separation from service. Requirements apply for exceptions to the 10% additional tax for qualified public
safety employees and private sector firefighters. You must
have separated from service in or after the year in which
you reach age 55 (or the earlier of age 50 or with 25 years
of service under the plan, whichever is earlier). In these
cases wait until you reach the applicable age or years of
service, separate from service, and then take a distribution.
Example. George separated from service from his employer at age 49. In the year he reached age 55, he took a
distribution from his retirement plan. Because he separated from service before he reached age 55, he didn’t meet
the requirements for the exception for a distribution made
from a qualified retirement plan (other than an IRA) after
separating from service in or after reaching age 55.
Qualified public safety employees. If you are a qualified public safety employee, distributions that are made
from a governmental retirement plan may not be subject to
the 10% additional tax on early distributions.
You are a qualified public safety employee if you provided police protection, firefighting services, or emergency
medical services for a state or municipality.

physician as having a terminal illness.

32

Chapter 4

Qualified Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

For tax years beginning after 2015, the definition of
“qualified public safety employees”is expanded to include:

• Federal law enforcement officers,
• Federal customs and border protection officers,
• Federal firefighters,
• Air traffic controllers,
• Nuclear materials couriers,
• Members of the United States Capitol Police,
• Members of the Supreme Court Police, and
• Diplomatic security special agents of the United
States Department of State.

Certain distributions to qualified public safety employees. The exception to the 10% additional tax for
early distributions applies to distributions made to qualified public safety employees and firefighters covered by
private sector retirement plans after separation from service on or after they reach age 50 or with 25 years of service under the plan, whichever is earlier. The exception
also includes distributions from an IRA, and to those employees who meet the age or years of service requirement, as described earlier, who provide services as a corrections officer or as a forensic security employee
providing for the care, custody, and control of forensic patients.
Qualified reservist distributions. A qualified reservist
distribution isn’t subject to the 10% additional tax on early
distributions. A qualified reservist distribution is a distribution (a) from an IRA or from elective deferrals under a section 401(k) or 403(b) plan, or a similar arrangement; (b) to
an individual ordered or called to active duty (because
they are a member of a reserve component) for a period of
more than 179 days or for an indefinite period; and (c)
made during the period beginning on the date of the order
or call and ending at the close of the active duty period.
You must be ordered or called to active duty after September 11, 2001.
Tip: You can choose to recontribute part or all of the distributions to an IRA. These additional contributions must
be made within 2 years after your active duty period ends.
Any amount recontributed must be reported on Form 8606
as a nondeductible contribution. You can’t take a deduction for these contributions. However, the normal dollar
limitations for contributions to IRAs don't apply to these
special contributions, and you can make regular contributions to your IRA, up to the amount otherwise allowable.
Qualified birth or adoption distributions. A qualified
birth or adoption distribution isn't subject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions. An individual can receive
up to $5,000 from an applicable eligible retirement plan for
a distribution made during the 1-year period beginning on
the date on which a child of the individual is born or the
date on which the legal adoption by the individual of an eligible adoptee is finalized. For more information on qualified birth or adoption distributions, see Notice 2020-68,
Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 4

which is on page 567 of Internal Revenue Bulletin 2020-38
at IRS.gov/pub/irs-irb20-38.pdf.
Repayment of qualified birth or adoption distributions limited to 3 years. If you received a qualified birth
or adoption distribution after December 29, 2022, you may
repay the distribution by making one or more contributions
to a qualified plan during the 3-year period beginning on
the day after the date on which the distribution was received.
For distributions received on or before December 29,
2022, you may repay the distribution during the period that
begins after the distribution was received and ending on
the date before 2026. Any contribution made to the eligible retirement plan as a repayment of a qualified birth or
adoption distribution may be eligible for tax-free rollover
treatment.
Distributions to victims of domestic abuse. If you are
a victim of domestic abuse, a distribution you receive
while under age 59½ is not subject to the 10% additional
tax if it meets certain requirements. This must be a distribution from an eligible retirement plan during the 1-year
period beginning on any date on which the individual is a
victim of domestic abuse by a spouse or domestic partner.
See Notice 2024-55, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2024-28_IRB#NOT-2024-55, for more information.
An eligible distribution to a domestic abuse victim must
not exceed the lesser of $10,000 or 50% of the present
value of the nonforfeitable accrued benefit of the employee under the plan.
Distributions for emergency personal expenses. An
emergency personal expense distribution is a distribution
from an applicable eligible retirement plan for the purposes of meeting the unforeseeable or immediate financial
needs relating to necessary personal or family emergency
expenses. See Notice 2024-55 for more information.
Substantially equal periodic payments. The IRS has
provided three general methods of computing the annual
distribution amounts for meeting the requirements for a
series of substantially equal periodic payments.
The three methods are generally referred to as the “required minimum distribution method (RMD method)”, the
“fixed amortization method”, and the “fixed annuitization
method”.
General descriptions of these methods are as follows.
1. RMD method. Under this method, the resulting annual payment is redetermined for each year.
2. Fixed amortization method. Under this method, the
resulting annual payment is determined once for the
first distribution year and remains the same amount
for each succeeding year.
3. Fixed annuitization method. Under this method, the
resulting annual payment is determined once for the
first distribution year and remains the same amount
for each succeeding year.

Qualified Plans

33

The latter two methods may require professional assistance. For information on these methods, see Notice
2022-6 at IRS.gov/irb/2022-05_IRB#NOT-2022-06.
Note: For a series of substantially equal periodic payments starting in 2022, you may apply the guidance either
in Notice 2022-6, or in Revenue Ruling 2002-62 which is
on page 710 of Internal Revenue Bulletin 2002-42 at
IRS.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb02-42.pdf.
Tip: A change from method (2) or (3) to method (1) isn’t
treated as a modification to which the recapture tax (discussed next) applies.
Tip: Distributions received as periodic payments on or after December 29, 2022, will not fail to be treated as substantially equal merely because they are received as an
annuity.
Recapture tax for changes in distribution method under equal payment exception. An early distribution recapture tax may apply if, before you reach age 591/2, the
distribution method under the equal periodic payment exception changes (for reasons other than your death or disability). The tax applies if the method changes from the
method requiring equal payments to a method that
wouldn’t have qualified for the exception to the tax. The recapture tax applies to the first tax year to which the
change applies. The amount of tax is the amount that
would have been imposed had the exception not applied,
plus interest for the deferral period.
The recapture tax also applies after you reach age
591/2 if your payments under a distribution method that
qualifies for the exception are modified within 5 years of
the date of the first payment. In that case, the tax applies
only to payments distributed before you reach age 591/2.
Report the recapture tax and interest on line 4 of Form
5329. Attach an explanation to the form. Don’t enter the
explanation next to the line or enter any amount for the recapture on line 1 or 3 of the form.
Higher education expenses. Even if you are under age
591/2, if you received a distribution from an IRA and you
paid expenses for higher education during the year, part
(or all) of any distribution may not be subject to the 10%
additional tax (this only applies to a distribution from an
IRA). The part not subject to the tax is generally the
amount that isn't more than the qualified higher education
expenses (defined next) for the year for education furnished at an eligible educational institution (defined below). The education must be for you, your spouse, or the
children or grandchildren of you or your spouse.
When determining the amount of the distribution that
isn't subject to the 10% additional tax, include qualified
higher education expenses paid with any of the following
funds.

• Payment for services, such as wages.
• A loan.
• An inheritance given to either the student or the individual making the withdrawal.

34

Chapter 4

• A withdrawal from personal savings (including savings
from a qualified tuition program).

Don't include expenses paid with any of the following
funds.

• Tax-free distributions from a Coverdell education savings account.

• Tax-free part of scholarships and fellowships.
• Pell grants.
• Employer-provided educational assistance.
• Veterans' educational assistance.
• Any other tax-free payment (other than a gift or inheritance) received as educational assistance.

Qualified higher education expenses. Qualified higher
education expenses are tuition, fees, books, supplies, and
equipment required for the enrollment or attendance of a
student at an eligible educational institution. They also include expenses for special needs services incurred by or
for special needs students in connection with their enrollment or attendance. In addition, if the individual is at least
a half-time student, room and board are qualified higher
education expenses.
Eligible educational institution. This is any college,
university, vocational school, or other postsecondary educational institution eligible to participate in the student aid
programs administered by the U.S. Department of Education. It includes virtually all accredited, public, nonprofit,
and proprietary (privately owned profit-making) post-secondary institutions. The educational institution should be
able to tell you if it is an eligible educational institution.
First home. Even if you are under age 591/2, you don't
have to pay the 10% additional tax on up to $10,000 of
distributions you receive from an IRA to buy, build, or rebuild a first home (this exception only applies to distributions from an IRA). To qualify for treatment as a first-time
homebuyer distribution, the distribution must meet all the
following requirements.
1. It must be used to pay qualified acquisition costs before the close of the 120th day after the day you received it.
2. It must be used to pay qualified acquisition costs for
the main home of a first-time homebuyer who is any of
the following.
a. Yourself.
b. Your spouse.
c. Your or your spouse's child.
d. Your or your spouse's grandchild.
e. Your or your spouse's parent or other ancestor.
3. When added to all your prior qualified first-time homebuyer distributions, if any, total qualifying distributions
can't be more than $10,000.

Qualified Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

Tip: If both you and your spouse are first-time homebuyers (defined later), each of you can receive distributions
up to $10,000 for a first home without having to pay the
10% additional tax.
Qualified acquisition costs. Qualified acquisition costs
include the following items.

• Costs of buying, building, or rebuilding a home.
• Any usual or reasonable settlement, financing, or
other closing costs.

First-time homebuyer. Generally, you are a first-time
homebuyer if you had no present interest in a main home
during the 2-year period ending on the date of acquisition
of the home which the distribution is being used to buy,
build, or rebuild. If you are married, your spouse must also
meet this no-ownership requirement.
Date of acquisition. The date of acquisition is the date
that:

Excise Tax on Reversion of Plan
Assets
A 20% or 50% excise tax is generally imposed on the
cash and fair market value of other property an employer
receives directly or indirectly from a qualified plan. If you
owe this tax, report it in Schedule I of Form 5330. See the
form instructions for more information.

Notification of Significant Benefit
Accrual Reduction
An employer or the plan will have to pay an excise tax if
both of the following occur.

• A defined benefit plan or money purchase pension

plan is amended to provide for a significant reduction
in the rate of future benefit accrual.

• The plan administrator fails to notify the affected indi-

• You enter into a binding contract to buy the main home

viduals and the employee organizations representing
them of the reduction in writing.

• The building or rebuilding of the main home for which

A plan amendment that eliminates or reduces any early
retirement benefit or retirement-type subsidy reduces the
rate of future benefit accrual.

for which the distribution is being used, or

the distribution is being used begins.

Tip: If you received a distribution to buy, build, or rebuild a
first home and the purchase or construction was canceled
or delayed, you could generally contribute the amount of
the distribution to an IRA within 120 days of the distribution and not pay income tax or the 10% additional tax on
early distributions. This contribution is treated as a rollover
contribution to the IRA.
Reporting the tax. To report the tax on early distributions, file Form 5329. See the form instructions for additional information about this tax.

Tax on Excess Benefits
If you are or have been a 5% owner of the business maintaining the plan, amounts you receive at any age that are
more than the benefits provided for you under the plan formula are subject to an additional tax. This tax also applies
to amounts received by your successor. The tax is 10% of
the excess benefit includible in income.
To determine whether or not you are a 5% owner, see
section 416.
Reporting the tax. Include on Schedule 2 (Form 1040),
Part II, line 17j, any tax you owe for an excess benefit.
Lump-sum distribution. The amount subject to the additional tax isn't eligible for the optional methods of figuring income tax on a lump-sum distribution. The optional
methods are discussed under Lump-Sum Distributions in
Pub. 575.

The notice must be written in a manner calculated to be
understood by the average plan participant and must provide enough information to allow each individual to understand the effect of the plan amendment. It must be provided within a reasonable time before the amendment takes
effect.
The tax is $100 per participant or alternate payee for
each day the notice is late. The total tax can't be more
than $500,000 during the tax year. It is imposed on the
employer or, in the case of a multiemployer plan, on the
plan.

Prohibited Transactions
Prohibited transactions are transactions between the plan
and a disqualified person that are prohibited by law. (However, see Exemption, later.) If you are a disqualified person who takes part in a prohibited transaction, you must
pay a tax (discussed later).
Prohibited transactions generally include the following
transactions.
1. A transfer of plan income or assets to, or use of them
by or for the benefit of, a disqualified person.
2. Any act of a fiduciary by which they deal with plan income or assets in the fiduciary’s own interest.
3. The receipt of consideration by a fiduciary for their
own account from any party dealing with the plan in a
transaction that involves plan income or assets.
4. Any of the following acts between the plan and a disqualified person.
a. Selling, exchanging, or leasing property.

Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 4

Qualified Plans

35

b. Lending money or extending credit.
c. Furnishing goods, services, or facilities.
Exemption. Certain transactions are exempt from being
treated as prohibited transactions. For example, a prohibited transaction doesn't take place if you are a disqualified
person and receive any benefit to which you are entitled
as a plan participant or beneficiary. However, the benefit
must be figured and paid under the same terms as for all
other participants and beneficiaries. For other transactions
that are exempt, see section 4975 and the related regulations.
Disqualified person. You are a disqualified person if you
are any of the following.
1. A fiduciary of the plan.
2. A person providing services to the plan.
3. An employer, any of whose employees are covered by
the plan.
4. An employee organization, any of whose members
are covered by the plan.
5. Any direct or indirect owner of 50% or more of any of
the following.
a. The combined voting power of all classes of stock
entitled to vote, or the total value of shares of all
classes of stock of a corporation that is an employer or employee organization described in (3)
or (4).
b. The capital interest or profits interest of a partnership that is an employer or employee organization
described in (3) or (4).
c. The beneficial interest of a trust or unincorporated
enterprise that is an employer or an employee organization described in (3) or (4).
6. A member of the family of any individual described in
(1), (2), (3), or (5). (A member of a family is the
spouse, ancestor, or lineal descendant, or any spouse
of a lineal descendant.)
7. A corporation, partnership, trust, or estate of which (or
in which) any direct or indirect owner described in (1)
through (5) holds 50% or more of any of the following.
a. The combined voting power of all classes of stock
entitled to vote or the total value of shares of all
classes of stock of a corporation.
b. The capital interest or profits interest of a partnership.
c. The beneficial interest of a trust or estate.
8. An officer, a director (or an individual having powers
or responsibilities similar to those of officers or directors), a 10%-or-more shareholder, or a highly compensated employee (earning 10% or more of the
yearly wages of an employer) of a person described in
(3), (4), (5), or (7).
36

Chapter 4

9. A 10%-or-more (in capital or profits) partner or joint
venturer of a person described in (3), (4), (5), or (7).
10. Any disqualified person, as described in (1) through
(9) above, who is a disqualified person with respect to
any plan to which a section 501(c)(22) trust is permitted to make payments under section 4223 of ERISA.

Tax on Prohibited Transactions
The initial tax on a prohibited transaction is 15% of the
amount involved for each year (or part of a year) in the tax
period. If the transaction isn't corrected within the tax period, an additional tax of 100% of the amount involved is
imposed. For information on correcting the transaction,
see Correcting a prohibited transaction, later.
Both taxes are payable by any disqualified person who
participated in the transaction (other than a fiduciary acting only as such). If more than one person takes part in
the transaction, each person can be jointly and severally
liable for the entire tax.
Amount involved. The amount involved in a prohibited
transaction is the greater of the following amounts.

• The money and fair market value of any property
given.

• The money and fair market value of any property received.

If services are performed, the amount involved is any
excess compensation given or received.
Tax period. The tax period starts on the transaction date
and ends on the earliest of the following days.

• The day the IRS mails a notice of deficiency for the
tax.

• The day the IRS assesses the tax.
• The day the correction of the transaction is completed.
Payment of the 15% tax. Pay the 15% tax with Form
5330.
Correcting a prohibited transaction. If you are a disqualified person who participated in a prohibited transaction, you can avoid the 100% tax by correcting the transaction as soon as possible. Correcting the transaction
means undoing it as much as you can without putting the
plan in a worse financial position than if you had acted under the highest fiduciary standards.
Correction period. If the prohibited transaction isn't
corrected during the tax period, you usually have an additional 90 days after the day the IRS mails a notice of deficiency for the 100% tax to correct the transaction. This
correction period (the tax period plus the 90 days) can be
extended if either of the following occurs.

• The IRS grants reasonable time needed to correct the
transaction.

• You petition the Tax Court.
Qualified Plans

Publication 560 (2025)

If you correct the transaction within this period, the IRS will
abate, credit, or refund the 100% tax.

Reporting Requirements
You may have to file an annual return/report by the last day
of the seventh month after the plan year ends. See the following list of forms to choose the right form for your plan.
Form 5500-SF. Form 5500-SF is a simplified annual reporting form. You can use Form 5500-SF if the plan meets
all the following conditions.

• The plan is a small plan (generally, fewer than 100
participants at the beginning of the plan year).

• The plan meets the conditions for being exempt from

the requirements that the plan's books and records be
audited by an independent qualified public accountant.

• The plan has 100% of its assets invested in certain secure investments with a readily determinable fair
value.

• The plan holds no employer securities.
• The plan isn't a multiemployer plan.

If your plan is required to file an annual return/report but
isn't eligible to file Form 5500-SF, the plan must file Form
5500 or 5500-EZ, as appropriate. For more details, see
the Instructions for Form 5500-SF.
Form 5500-EZ. You may be able to use Form 5500-EZ if
the plan is a one-participant plan, as defined below.
One-participant plan. Your plan is a one-participant
plan if either of the following is true.

• The plan covers only you (or you and your spouse)

and you (or you and your spouse) own the entire business (whether incorporated or unincorporated).

• The plan covers only one or more partners (or partner(s) and spouse(s)) in a business partnership.

Caution: A one-participant plan may not file an annual return on Form 5500. Every one-participant plan required to

Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 4

file an annual return must file either Form 5500-EZ or
5500-SF. See the Instructions for Form 5500-EZ.
Form 5500-EZ not required. If your one-participant
plan (or plans) had total assets of $250,000 or less at the
end of the plan year, then you don't have to file Form
5500-EZ for that plan year. All plans should file a Form
5500-EZ for the final plan year to show that all plan assets
have been distributed.
Example. You are a sole proprietor and your plan
meets all the conditions for filing Form 5500-EZ. The total
plan assets are more than $250,000. You must file Form
5500-EZ or 5500-SF.
Caution: All one-participant plans should file Form
5500-EZ for their final plan year. The final plan year is the
year in which distribution of all plan assets is completed.
Form 5500. If you don't meet the requirements for filing Form 5500-EZ or 5500-SF and a return/report is required, you must file Form 5500.
Electronic filing of Forms 5500 and 5500-SF. All
Forms 5500 and 5500-SF are required to be filed electronically with the Department of Labor through EFAST2.
One-participant plans have the option of filing Form
5500-SF electronically rather than filing a Form 5500-EZ
on paper with the IRS. For more information, see the instructions for Forms 5500 and 5500-SF, available at
EFAST.dol.gov.
Form 5310. If you terminate your plan and are the plan
sponsor or plan administrator, you can file Form 5310.
Your application must be accompanied by the appropriate
user fee and Form 8717.
Form 8955-SSA. Form 8955-SSA is used to report participants who are no longer covered by the plan but have a
deferred vested benefit under the plan.
Form 8955-SSA is filed with the IRS and can be filed
electronically through the FIRE (Filing Information Returns
Electronically) system.
More information. For more information about reporting
requirements, see the forms and their instructions.

Qualified Plans

37

read across to the rate under Column A. Enter the rate
from step 4 of the Deduction Worksheet for Self-Employed
on this page.

5.
Table and Worksheets
for the Self-Employed
As discussed in chapters 2 and 4, if you are self-employed, you must use the rate table or rate worksheet and
deduction worksheet to figure your deduction for contributions you made for yourself to a SEP IRA or qualified plan.
First, use either the rate table or rate worksheet to find
your reduced contribution rate. Then, complete the deduction worksheet to figure your deduction for contributions.
Caution: The table and the worksheets in chapter 5 apply
only to self-employed individuals who have only one defined contribution plan, such as a profit-sharing plan. A
SEP plan is treated as a profit-sharing plan. However,
don't use this worksheet for SARSEPs.
Rate Table for Self-Employed. If your plan's contribution
rate is a whole percentage (for example, 12% rather than
121/2%), you can use the Rate Table for Self-Employed on
the next page to find your reduced contribution rate. Otherwise, use the Rate Worksheet for Self-Employed provided below.
First, find your plan contribution rate (the contribution
rate stated in your plan) in Column A of the table. Then,

38

Chapter 5

Example. You are a sole proprietor with no employees.
If your plan's contribution rate is 10% of a participant's
compensation, your rate is 0.090909. Enter this rate on
step 4 of the Deduction Worksheet for Self-Employed.
Rate Worksheet for Self-Employed. If your plan's contribution rate isn't a whole percentage (for example,
101/2%), you can't use the Rate Table for Self-Employed.
Use the following worksheet instead.
Rate Worksheet for Self-Employed
1) Plan contribution rate as a decimal (for example, 101/2% =
0.105) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2) Rate in line 1 plus 1 (for example, 0.105 + 1 = 1.105) . . . . .
3) Self-employed rate as a decimal rounded to at least 3
decimal places (line 1 ÷ line 2) (for example, 0.105 ÷ 1.105 =
0.095) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Figuring your deduction. Now that you have your
self-employed rate from either the rate table or rate worksheet, you can figure your maximum deduction for contributions for yourself by completing the Deduction Worksheet for Self-Employed.
Community property laws. If you reside in a community property state and you are married and filing a separate return, disregard community property laws for step 1
of the Deduction Worksheet for Self-Employed. Enter on
step 1 the total net profit you actually earned.

Table and Worksheets for the Self-Employed

Publication 560 (2025)

Deduction Worksheet for Self-Employed
Step 1

Step 2

Step 3
Step 4
Step 5
Step 6
Step 7
Step 8

Step 9

Enter your net profit from Schedule C (Form 1040), line 31; Schedule F (Form 1040), line 34;* or Schedule K-1 (Form 1065),* box 14,
code A.** For information on other income included in net profit from self-employment, see the Instructions for Schedule SE (Form
1040) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
* Reduce this amount by any amount reported on Schedule SE (Form 1040), line 1b.
** General partners should reduce this amount by the same additional expenses
subtracted from box 14, code A, to determine the amount on line 1a or line 2 of
Schedule SE (Form 1040).
Enter your deduction for self-employment tax from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Net earnings from self-employment. Subtract step 2 from step 1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Enter your rate from the Rate Table for Self-Employed or Rate Worksheet for Self-Employed
Multiply step 3 by step 4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Multiply $350,000 by your plan contribution rate (not the reduced rate) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the smaller of step 5 or step 6
Contribution dollar limit
•
•

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$70,000

If you made any elective deferrals to your self-employed plan, go to step 9.
Otherwise, skip steps 9 through 20 and enter the smaller of step 7 or step 8 on step 21.

Enter your allowable elective deferrals (including designated Roth contributions) made to your self-employed plan for the 2025 plan year.
Don't enter more than $23,500 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 10
Subtract step 9 from step 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 11
Subtract step 9 from step 3
Step 12
Enter one-half of step 11

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 13
Enter the smallest of step 7, step 10, or step 12

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 14
Subtract step 13 from step 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 15
Enter the smaller of step 9 or step 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
•
If you made catch-up contributions, go to step 16.
•
Otherwise, skip steps 16 through 18 and go to step 19.
Step 16
Subtract step 15 from step 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 17
Enter your catch-up contributions (including designated Roth contributions), if any. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 18
Enter the smaller of step 16 or step 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 19
Add steps 13, 15, and 18

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 20
Enter the amount of designated Roth contributions included on steps 9 and 17

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 21
Subtract step 20 from step 19. This is your maximum deductible contribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Next: Enter your actual contribution, not to exceed your maximum deductible contribution, on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16.

Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 5

Table and Worksheets for the Self-Employed

39

Rate Table for Self-Employed
Column A
If the plan contribution rate is:
(shown as %)

Column B
Your
rate is:
(shown as decimal)

1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

0.009901
0.019608
0.029126
0.038462
0.047619
0.056604
0.065421
0.074074
0.082569
0.090909
0.099099
0.107143
0.115044
0.122807
0.130435
0.137931
0.145299
0.152542
0.159664
0.166667
0.173554
0.180328
0.186992
0.193548
0.200000*

Example. You are a sole proprietor with no employees.
The terms of your plan provide that you contribute 81/2%
(0.085) of your compensation to your plan. Your net profit
from Schedule C (Form 1040), line 31, is $200,000. You
have no elective deferrals or catch-up contributions. Your
self-employment tax deduction on line 15 of Schedule 1
(Form 1040) is $13,596. See the filled-in portions of both
Schedule SE (Form 1040) and Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
later.
You figure your self-employed rate and maximum deduction for employer contributions you made for yourself
as follows.
See the filled-in Deduction Worksheet for Self-Employed, later.
Rate Worksheet for Self-Employed
1) Plan contribution rate as a decimal (for example, 101/2% =
0.105) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2) Rate in line 1 plus 1 (for example, 0.105 + 1 = 1.105) . . . . .
3) Self-employed rate as a decimal rounded to at least 3
decimal places (line 1 ÷ line 2) (for example, 0.105 ÷ 1.105 =
0.095) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

0.085
1.085
0.078

* The deduction for annual employer contributions (other than elective deferrals) to a SEP
plan, a profit-sharing plan, or a money purchase pension plan can't be more than 20% of
your net earnings (figured without deducting contributions for yourself) from the business
that has the plan.

40

Chapter 5

Table and Worksheets for the Self-Employed

Publication 560 (2025)

Deduction Worksheet for Self-Employed
Step 1

Step 2

Step 3
Step 4
Step 5
Step 6
Step 7
Step 8

Step 9

Enter your net profit from Schedule C (Form 1040), line 31; Schedule F (Form 1040), line 34;* or Schedule K-1 (Form 1065),* box 14,
code A.** For information on other income included in net profit from self-employment, see the Instructions for Schedule SE (Form
1040) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
* Reduce this amount by any amount reported on Schedule SE (Form 1040), line 1b.
** General partners should reduce this amount by the same additional expenses
subtracted from box 14, code A, to determine the amount on line 1a or line 2 of
Schedule SE (Form 1040).

$200,000

Enter your deduction for self-employment tax from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

13,596

Net earnings from self-employment. Subtract step 2 from step 1

186,404

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Enter your rate from the Rate Table for Self-Employed or Rate Worksheet for Self-Employed

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

0.078

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

14,540

Multiply $350,000 by your plan contribution rate (not the reduced rate) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

29,750

Enter the smaller of step 5 or step 6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

14,540

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$70,000

Multiply step 3 by step 4

Contribution dollar limit
•
•

If you made any elective deferrals to your self-employed plan, go to step 9.
Otherwise, skip steps 9 through 20 and enter the smaller of step 7 or step 8 on step 21.

Enter your allowable elective deferrals (including designated Roth contributions) made to your self-employed plan for the 2025 plan
year. Don't enter more than $23,500 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 10
Subtract step 9 from step 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 11
Subtract step 9 from step 3
Step 12
Enter one-half of step 11

N/A

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 13
Enter the smallest of step 7, step 10, or step 12

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 14
Subtract step 13 from step 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 15
Enter the smaller of step 9 or step 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
•
If you made catch-up contributions, go to step 16.
•
Otherwise, skip steps 16 through 18 and go to step 19.
Step 16
Subtract step 15 from step 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 17
Enter your catch-up contributions (including designated Roth contributions), if any. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 18
Enter the smaller of step 16 or step 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 19
Add steps 13, 15, and 18

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 20
Enter the amount of designated Roth contributions included on steps 9 and 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Step 21
Subtract step 20 from step 19. This is your maximum deductible contribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$14,540

Next: Enter your actual contribution, not to exceed your maximum deductible contribution, on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16.

Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 5

Table and Worksheets for the Self-Employed

41

SCHEDULE SE
Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

2025

Attach to Form 1040, 1040-SR, 1040-SS, or 1040-NR.
Go to www.irs.gov/ScheduleSE for instructions and the latest information.

Name of person with self-employment income (as shown on Form 1040, 1040-SR, 1040-SS, or 1040-NR)

Part I

OMB No. 1545-0074

Self-Employment Tax

(Form 1040)

Attachment
Sequence No. 17

Social security number of person
with self-employment income

Self-Employment Tax

Note: If your only income subject to self-employment tax is church employee income, see instructions for how to report your income
and the definition of church employee income.
A
If you are a minister, member of a religious order, or Christian Science practitioner and you filed Form 4361, but you had
$400 or more of other net earnings from self-employment, check here and continue with Part I . . . . . . . . .
Skip lines 1a and 1b if you use the farm optional method in Part II. See instructions.
1a Net farm profit or (loss) from Schedule F, line 34, and farm partnerships, Schedule K-1 (Form 1065),
1a
box 14, code A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
b If you received social security retirement or disability benefits, enter the amount of Conservation Reserve
)
Program payments included on Schedule F, line 4b, or listed on Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), box 20, code AQ 1b (
Skip line 2 if you use the nonfarm optional method in Part II. See instructions.
Net profit or (loss) from Schedule C, line 31; and Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), box 14, code A (other than
2
2
farming). See instructions for other income to report or if you are a minister or member of a religious order
200,000
3
Combine lines 1a, 1b, and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
200,000
4a If line 3 is more than zero, multiply line 3 by 92.35% (0.9235). Otherwise, enter amount from line 3 .
4a
184,700
Note: If line 4a is less than $400 due to Conservation Reserve Program payments on line 1b, see instructions.
b If you elect one or both of the optional methods, enter the total of lines 15 and 17 here . . . . .
4b
c Combine lines 4a and 4b. If less than $400, stop; you don’t owe self-employment tax. Exception: If
less than $400 and you had church employee income, enter -0- and continue . . . . . . . .
4c
184,700
5a Enter your church employee income from Form W-2. See instructions for
definition of church employee income . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5a
b Multiply line 5a by 92.35% (0.9235). If less than $100, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5b
6
Add lines 4c and 5b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6
184,700
7
Maximum amount of combined wages and self-employment earnings subject to social security tax or
the 6.2% portion of the 7.65% railroad retirement (tier 1) tax for 2025 . . . . . . . . . . .
7
$176,100
8a

Total social security wages and tips (total of boxes 3 and 7 on Form(s) W-2)
and railroad retirement (tier 1) compensation. If $176,100 or more, skip lines
8b through 10, and go to line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8a
b Unreported tips subject to social security tax from Form 4137, line 10 . . .
8b
c Wages subject to social security tax from Form 8919, line 10 . . . . . .
8c
d Add lines 8a, 8b, and 8c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9
Subtract line 8d from line 7. If zero or less, enter -0- here and on line 10 and go to line 11 . . . .
10
Multiply the smaller of line 6 or line 9 by 12.4% (0.124) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11
Multiply line 6 by 2.9% (0.029) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12
Self-employment tax. Add lines 10 and 11. Enter here and on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 4, or
Form 1040-SS, Part I, line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13
Deduction for one-half of self-employment tax.
Multiply line 12 by 50% (0.50). Enter here and on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
13,596
line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13
For Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see your tax return instructions.

42

Chapter 5

Cat. No. 11358Z

8d
9
10
11

176,100
21,836
5,356

12

27,192

Schedule SE (Form 1040) 2025 Created 5/7/25

Table and Worksheets for the Self-Employed

Publication 560 (2025)

Page 2

Schedule 1 (Form 1040) 2025

Part II
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19a
b
c
20
21
22
23
24
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
h
i
j
k
z

25
26

Adjustments to Income

Educator expenses
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Certain business expenses of reservists, performing artists, and fee-basis government officials. Attach
Form 2106 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Health savings account deduction. Attach Form 8889 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moving expenses for members of the Armed Forces. Attach Form 3903. If claiming only storage fees
(see instructions), check here
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deductible part of self-employment tax. Attach Schedule SE . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Self-employed SEP, SIMPLE, and qualified plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Self-employed health insurance deduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Penalty on early withdrawal of savings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Alimony paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Recipient’s SSN
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Date of original divorce or separation agreement (see instructions):
IRA deduction. If you are married filing separately and lived apart from your spouse for the entire year
(see instructions), check here
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Student loan interest deduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reserved for future use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Archer MSA deduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Other adjustments:
Jury duty pay (see instructions)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24a
Deductible expenses related to income reported on line 8l from the rental of
personal property engaged in for profit . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24b
Nontaxable amount of the value of Olympic and Paralympic medals and USOC
prize money reported on line 8m . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24c
Reforestation amortization and expenses . . . . . . . . . . . .
24d
Repayment of supplemental unemployment benefits under the Trade Act of
1974 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24e
Contributions to section 501(c)(18)(D) pension plans . . . . . . . . .
24f
Contributions by certain chaplains to section 403(b) plans . . . . . . .
24g
Attorney fees and court costs for actions involving certain unlawful
discrimination claims (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24h
Attorney fees and court costs you paid in connection with an award from the
IRS for information you provided that helped the IRS detect tax law violations 24i
Housing deduction from Form 2555 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24j
Excess deductions of section 67(e) expenses from Schedule K-1 (Form 1041)
24k
Other adjustments. List type and amount:
24z
Total other adjustments. Add lines 24a through 24z . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add lines 11 through 23 and 25. These are your adjustments to income. Enter here and on Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19a

13,596
14,540

20
21
22
23

25
26
Schedule 1 (Form 1040) 2025

4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.

6.
How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue, need help preparing your tax return, or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 6

Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.

How To Get Tax Help

43

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE, download the free IRS2Go app, or
call 888-227-7669 for information on free tax return
preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov,
you can get up-to-date information on current events and
changes in tax law.
swers to some of the most common tax questions.

44

Chapter 6

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Caution: Although the tax preparer always signs the return, you're ultimately responsible for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare
your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on
the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns for others
should have a thorough understanding of tax matters. For
more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to
Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.
Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get an-

will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax law topics.

IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English
and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
How To Get Tax Help

Publication 560 (2025)

• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment

Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS
serves taxpayers with limited-English proficiency (LEP) by
offering OPI service. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and
every VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI Service is accessible in more than 300 languages.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all of the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You'll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You'll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

Publication 560 (2025)

Chapter 6

plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to eligible taxpayers to
help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent
federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN,
it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with
your SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

How To Get Tax Help

45

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
Caution: The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional child
tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund, not
just the portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information
on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s

free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: Best option
for businesses. Enrollment is required.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/1040X for information and updates.
46

Chapter 6

Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.
Caution: It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our system, and
processing it can take up to 16 weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able to use
the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information,
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC office. Keep in mind, many
questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting an
IRS TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people
ask about most. If you still need help, IRS TACs provide
tax help when a tax issue can’t be handled online or by
phone. All TACs now provide service by appointment, so
you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you
need without long wait times. Before you visit, go to
IRS.gov/TAC to find the nearest TAC and to check hours,
available services, and appointment options. Or, on the
IRS2Go app, under the Stay Connected tab, choose the
Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) Is Here To Help
You
What is the Taxpayer Advocate Service? The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). TAS
helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS, makes administrative and legislative recommendations to prevent or
correct the problems, and protects taxpayer rights. We
work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated fairly and that
you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer
Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

How To Get Tax Help

Publication 560 (2025)

How can TAS help me? TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been able to resolve with the IRS on
your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS
first, but if you can’t, then come to TAS. Our services are
free.

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn't working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic is-

Index

sues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)
How do I contact TAS? TAS has offices in every state,
the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What are my Rights as a taxpayer? The Taxpayer Bill
of Rights describes ten basic rights that all taxpayers have
when
dealing
with
the
IRS.
Go
to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

401(k) Plan:
Elective Deferrals 25
Safe harbor 28

A

Annual additions 6
Annual benefits 6
Assistance (See Tax help)
Automatic Enrollment 26

B

Business, definition 6

C

Common-law employee 6
Compensation 6
Contribution:
Defined 7
Limits:
Qualified plans 24
SEP IRAs 10
SIMPLE IRA plan 16

D

Deduction:
Defined 7
Deduction Worksheet for
Self-Employed 38
Defined benefit plan:
Deduction limits 24
Limits on contributions 24
Defined contribution plan:
Automatic Enrollment 26
Deduction limits 24
Eligible automatic contribution
arrangement 26

Publication 560 (2025)

Forfeitures 26
Limits on contributions 24
Money purchase pension plan 20
Profit-sharing plan 19
Qualified automatic contribution
arrangement 27
Definitions you need to know 6
Disqualified person 35
Distributions (withdrawals) 18

E

EACA 26
Earned income 7
Eligible automatic contribution
arrangement 26
Employees:
Eligible 9
Excludable 9
Highly compensated 7
Leased 7
Employer:
Defined 7
Excess Deferrals 28
Excise tax 35
Nondeductible (excess)
contributions 25
Reduced benefit accrual 35
SEP excess contributions 11
Excludable employees 15

F

Form:
1040 25, 35
1099-R 28
5304–SIMPLE 15
5305–S 15
5305–SA 15

5305–SEP 9
5305–SIMPLE 15
5310 37
5329 35
5330 25, 28, 35, 36
5500 37
5500-EZ 37
Form W-2 17
Schedule K (Form 1065) 25

H

Highly compensated employee 7

K

Keogh plans (See Qualified plans)

L

Leased employee 7

N

Net earnings from
self-employment 8
Notification requirements 15

P

Participant, definition 8
Participation 20
Partner, definition 8
Publications (See Tax help)

Q

QACA 27
Qualified automatic contribution
arrangement 27
Qualified Plan, definition 8
Qualified plans 18
47

Assignment of benefits 21
Benefits starting date 21
Contributions 23-25
Deduction limits 24, 25
Deduction Worksheet for
Self-Employed 38
Deductions 24
Deferrals 26
Defined benefit plan 20
Defined contribution plan 19
Distributions 29
Minimum 29
Required beginning date 30
Rollover 30
Tax on excess benefits 35
Tax on premature 32
Tax treatment 30
Elective Deferrals 25
Limits 26
Employee nondeductible
contributions 24
Excess Deferrals 28
Investing plan assets 23
Kinds of plans 19
Leased employees 21
Minimum requirements:
Coverage 20
Funding 23
Vesting 20
Prohibited transactions 35
Qualification rules 20
Rate Table for Self-Employed 38
Rate Worksheet for
Self-Employed 38
Reporting requirements 37
Setting up 22
Qualified Plans:
Survivor benefits 21
Qualified Roth Contribution
Program 29

48

R

Rate Table for Self-Employed 38
Rate Worksheet for
Self-Employed 38
Required distributions 29
Rollovers 30

S

Safe harbor 401(k) plan 28
Salary reduction arrangement 12
Salary Reduction Simplified
Employee Pension(SARSEP) 11
SARSEP:
ADP test 12
Section 402(f) notice 31
Self-employed individual 8
SEP IRAs:
Contributions 10
Deductible contributions 10, 11
Carryover of excess
contributions 11
Deduction limits 11
Limits for self-employed 11
When to deduct 11
Where to deduct 11
Distributions (withdrawals) 13
Eligible employee 9
Excludable employees 9
SEP plans:
Deduction Worksheet for
Self-Employed 38
Rate Table for Self-Employed 38
Rate Worksheet for
Self-Employed 38
Reporting and Disclosure 13
SIMPLE IRA plan:
Compensation 15
Contributions 16
Deductions 17

Distributions(withdrawals) 18
Employee election period 16
Employer matching
contributions 16
Excludable employees 15
Notification requirements 15
When to deduct contributions 17
SIMPLE plans 14, 17
SIMPLE 401(k) 18
SIMPLE IRA plan 14
Simplified employee pension
(SEP) 11
Salary reduction arrangement:
Compensation of self-employed
individuals 12
Employee compensation 12
Who can have a SARSEP 12
SEP IRA contributions 10
Setting up a SEP 9
Sixty-day employee election
period 16
Sole proprietor, definition 8

T

Tax help 43

U

User fee 23

W

Worksheets:
Deduction Worksheet for
Self-Employed 38
Rate Worksheet for
Self-Employed 38

Publication 560 (2025)

