Department
of the
Treasury
Internal
Revenue
Service

Publication 598
(Rev. March 2021)

Contents

Cat. No. 46598X

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Tax on
Unrelated
Business Income
of Exempt
Organizations

Chapter 1. Organizations Subject
to the Tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Chapter 2. The Tax and Filing
Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Chapter 3. Unrelated Trade
or Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Chapter 4. Unrelated Business
Taxable Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Chapter 5. How To Get Tax Help . . . . 21
Index

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Future Developments
The IRS has created a page on IRS.gov for
information about Pub. 598, at IRS.gov/Pub598.
Information about any future developments
affecting Pub. 598 (such as legislation enacted
after we release it) will be posted on that page.

What's New
• Mandatory electronic filing. Section 3101

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Mar 22, 2021

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

of the Taxpayer First Act, (P.L. 116-25)
requires tax-exempt organizations to
electronically file information returns and
related forms. This law affects tax-exempt
organizations in tax years beginning after
July 1, 2019. In 2020, the IRS continued to
accept paper Forms 990-T pending
conversion into electronic format. In 2021,
the Form 990-T is being updated and
e-filing is required for tax year 2020 filings.
The IRS expects e-filing to be available
beginning in February 2021. The IRS will
announce the specific dates when the
programming comes online. See the
Instructions for Form 990-T, When, Where,
and How To File, for more information.
• Final regulations issued. Section 512(a)(6)
requires a tax-exempt organization with
more than one unrelated trade or business
to compute unrelated business taxable
income (UBTI), including any NOL
deduction, separately for each trade or
business. Final regulations were published
in the Federal Register on December 2,
2020, that provide guidance on how an
exempt organization determines if it has
more than one unrelated trade or business,
and, if so, how the exempt organization
calculates unrelated business taxable
income. T.D. 9933, 85 Fed. Reg. 77952
(Dec. 2, 2020). The final regulations are
applicable to tax years beginning on or
after December 2, 2020. In addition, an
exempt organization may choose to apply
the final regulations under section 512(a)
(6) to tax years beginning on or after
January 1, 2018, and before December 2,
2020. Alternatively, an exempt

•

•

•

•

•

•

organization may rely on a reasonable,
good-faith interpretation of section 512(a)
(6) for such tax years. For this purpose, a
reasonable good faith interpretation
includes the methods of aggregating or
identifying separate trades or businesses
provided in Notice 2018-67 or the
proposed regulations published April 24,
2020 (85 Fed. Reg. 23172). See T.D. 9933
for more details.
Form 990-T has been redesigned for tax
year 2020. Schedule M (Form 990-T) has
been replaced with Schedule A. Each
unrelated trade or business of an
organization is reported on a separate
Schedule A. At the organization’s
discretion, each separate trade or
business may be classified by a 2-digit
North American Industrial Classification
System (NAICS) code. See Regulations
section 1.512(a)-6(b)(1). The Instructions
for Form 990-T provide 6-digit Business
Activity Codes for investment and other
activities not represented in NAICS.
Organizations with more than one
unrelated trade or business must compute
unrelated business taxable income (UBTI),
including for the purpose of determining
any net operating loss deduction,
separately with respect to each such trade
or business. See Regulations section
1.512(a)-6 for more information.
Retroactive repeal of section 512(a)(7).
P.L. 116-94 retroactively repealed the
section 512(a)(7), which required exempt
organizations to increase their unrelated
business taxable income for expenses
incurred to provide certain benefits,
including qualified transportation fringes. If
your organization reported and paid tax on
such amounts included in unrelated
business taxable income for tax years
2017 or 2018 and you want to claim a
refund, file an amended Form 990-T.
Net operating loss (NOL) carryback. The
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic
Security Act (CARES Act) amended
section 172 provides for carryback of any
net operating loss arising in a tax year
beginning after 2017 and before 2021 to
each of the 5 tax years preceding the tax
year of the NOL. Taxpayers may elect to
waive the carryback period for NOLs
arising in those years. To elect to waive the
carryback period for an NOL arising in a
tax year beginning in 2018 or 2019, attach
a statement electing the carryback waiver
to your return for the first tax year ending
after March 27, 2020. For more
information, see Rev. Proc. 2020-24. If you
incurred an NOL in a tax year beginning in
2018 or 2019, you can file an amended
return, Form 990-T, to carryback the NOL.
See Pub. 536 for more information.
The maximum cost of a low-cost article, for
organizations eligible to receive charitable
contributions, was increased to $11.20 for
2020. See Distribution of low-cost articles,
later.
The annual limit on associate member
dues received by an agricultural or
horticultural organization not treated as
gross income was increased to $171 for
2020. See Exception under Dues of

Page 2

Chapter 1

Agricultural Organizations and Business
Leagues, later.

and How To Get Tax Help at the end of this
publication.

Introduction
An exempt organization isn’t taxed on its income from an activity substantially related to
the charitable, educational, or other purpose
that is the basis for the organization's exemption. Such income is exempt even if the activity
is a trade or business.
However, if an exempt organization regularly carries on one or more trades or businesses not substantially related to the organization's exempt purpose, except that conducting
the trade or business provides funds to carry
out the exempt purpose, the organization is
subject to tax on its income from the unrelated
trade(s) or business(es).
This publication covers the rules for the tax
on unrelated business income of exempt organizations. It explains:
1. Which organizations are subject to the tax
(chapter 1),
2. What the requirements are for filing a tax
return (chapter 2),
3. What an unrelated trade or business is
(chapter 3), and
4. How to figure unrelated business taxable
income (chapter 4).
All section references in this publication are
to the Internal Revenue Code.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
557 Tax-Exempt Status for Your
Organization
557

Form (and Instructions)
990-T Exempt Organization Business
Income Tax Return
Schedule A (990-T) Unrelated Business
Taxable Income From an Unrelated
Trade or Business

1.
Organizations
Subject to the
Tax
The tax on unrelated business income applies
to most organizations exempt from tax under
section 501(a). These organizations include
charitable, religious, scientific, and other organizations described in section 501(c), as well as
employees' trusts forming part of pension,
profit-sharing, and stock bonus plans described
in section 401(a).
In addition, the following are subject to the tax
on unrelated business income.
• Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs),
including traditional IRAs, Roth IRAs, simplified employee pensions (SEP-IRAs),
and savings incentive match plans for employees (SIMPLE IRAs).
• State and municipal colleges and universities.
• Qualified state tuition programs described
in section 529.
• Qualified ABLE programs described in
section 529A.
• Medical savings accounts (MSAs) described in section 220(d).
• Coverdell savings accounts described in
section 530.

990-T

Schedule A (990-T)

Visit IRS.gov/FormsPubs to download forms
and publications. Otherwise, you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current and
prior-year forms and instructions. Your order
should arrive within 10 business days.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and your
suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or you can write to:
Internal Revenue Service
Tax Forms and Publications
1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526
Washington, DC 20224
Although we can’t respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments as
we revise our tax products.
Tax questions. If you have tax questions not
answered by the publication, check IRS.gov

Organizations Subject to the Tax

U.S. instrumentalities. A corporation that is a
U.S. instrumentality described in section 501(c)
(1) isn’t subject to the tax on unrelated business
income if the corporation is organized under an
Act of Congress and, under the Act, is exempt
from federal income taxes.
Colleges and universities. Colleges and universities that are agencies or instrumentalities
of any government or any political subdivision
of a government, or that are owned or operated
by a government or political subdivision of a
government, are subject to the tax on unrelated
business income. As used here, the word “government” includes any foreign government (to
the extent not contrary to a treaty) and all domestic governments (the United States and any
of its possessions, any state, and the District of
Columbia).
The tax is on the unrelated business income
of both the universities and colleges themselves
and on their wholly owned or controlled tax exempt subsidiary organizations. It is immaterial
whether the business is conducted by the university or by a separately incorporated wholly
owned or controlled subsidiary. If the business
activity is unrelated, the income in both instances will be subject to the tax. If the primary

purpose of a wholly owned or controlled subsidiary is to operate or conduct any unrelated trade
or business (other than holding title to property
and collecting income from it), the subsidiary
isn’t an exempt organization, and this rule
doesn’t apply.
Title-holding corporations. When an exempt
title-holding corporation, described in section
501(c)(2), pays any of its net income to an organization that itself is exempt from tax under
section 501(a) (or would pay such an amount
except that the expenses of collecting its income exceed the amount collected) and files a
consolidated return with that organization, the
title-holding corporation is treated, for unrelated
business income tax purposes, as organized
and operated for the same purposes as the exempt payee organization.
Thus, a title-holding corporation whose
source of income is related to the exempt purposes of the payee organization isn’t subject to
the unrelated business income tax if the holding
corporation and the payee organization file a
consolidated return. However, if the source of
the income isn’t so related, the title-holding corporation is subject to unrelated business income tax.
Example. X, a title-holding corporation, is
required to distribute its net income to A, an exempt organization. During the tax year, X realizes net income of $900,000 from source M,
which is related to A's exempt function. X also
receives $100,000 from source N, which isn’t
related to A's exempt function. X and A file a
consolidated return for the tax year. X has unrelated business income of $100,000.

2.
The Tax and
Filing
Requirements
All organizations subject to the tax on unrelated
business income, except the exempt trusts described in section 511(b)(2), are taxable at corporate rates on that income. All exempt trusts
subject to the tax on unrelated business income
that, if not exempt, would be taxable as trusts
are taxable at trust rates on that income. However, an exempt trust may not claim the deduction for a personal exemption that is normally allowed to a trust.
The tax is imposed on the organization's unrelated business taxable income (UBTI) (described
in chapter 4). Under section 512(a)(6), an organization that conducts more than one unrelated trade or business calculates its UBTI as the
sum of the UBTI calculated separately for each
unrelated trade or business, and when calculating this sum, the UBTI from any of the separate

trades or businesses can't be less than zero.
The tax computed on the total UBTI can be reduced by any applicable tax credits, including
the general business credits (such as the investment credit) and the foreign tax credit.

Returns and Filing
Requirements
Mandatory electronic filing of Form 990-T started in February 2021. Limited exceptions apply.
See the Instructions for Form 990-T for more information. The obligation to file Form 990-T is in
addition to the obligation to file any other required return or notice.
Form 990-T is required if the sum of the organization's gross income from all unrelated
businesses is $1,000 or more. An exempt organization files a single Form 990-T. The organization reports the income and expenses for
each of its unrelated businesses on a separate
Schedule A (Form 990-T) attached to the Form
990-T. See Regulations section 1.512(a)-6 for
information about how to identify separate unrelated trades or businesses.
Each organization must file a separate Form
990-T, except section 501(c)(2) title-holding
corporations and organizations receiving their
earnings that file a consolidated return under
section 1501.
The various provisions of tax law relating to
accounting periods, accounting methods,
at-risk limits (described in section 465), assessments, and collection penalties that apply to tax
returns also generally apply to Form 990-T.
When to file. The Form 990-T of an employees' trust described in section 401(a), an IRA
(including a traditional, SEP, SIMPLE, Roth, or
Coverdell IRA), or an MSA must be filed by the
15th day of the 4th month after the end of its tax
year. The Form 990-T of any other exempt organization must be filed by the 15th day of the
5th month after the end of its tax year. If the due
date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the return is due by the next business day.
Extension of time to file. Use Form 8868,
Application for Automatic Extension of Time To
File an Exempt Organization Return, to request
an automatic 6-month extension of time to file
Form 990-T.
Public Inspection Requirements of Section
501(c)(3)
Organizations. Under
section
6104(d), a section 501(c)(3) organization that
has gross income from an unrelated trade or
business of $1,000 or more must make its Form
990-T return (including amended returns) available for public inspection. See the Instructions
for Form 990-T for information about attachments and related forms that are disclosable as
part of the return.
A section 501(c)(3) organization filing

TIP the Form 990-T only to request a credit

for certain federal excise taxes paid
doesn’t have to make the Form 990-T available
for public inspection.
Chapter 2

Payment of Tax
Estimated tax. A tax-exempt organization
must make estimated tax payments if it anticipates its tax (unrelated business income tax after certain adjustments) to be $500 or more. Estimated tax payments are generally due by the
15th day of the 4th, 6th, 9th, and 12th months of
the tax year. If any due date falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday, the payment is due on
the next business day.
Any organization that fails to pay the proper
estimated tax when due may be charged an underpayment penalty for the period of underpayment. Generally, to avoid the estimated tax penalty, the organization must make estimated tax
payments that total 100% of the organization's
current tax year liability. However, an organization with taxable income less than $1 million for
each of the 3 preceding tax years can base its
required estimated tax payments on 100% of
the tax shown on its return for the preceding
year (unless no tax is shown). If an organization's taxable income for any of those years was
$1 million or more, it can base only its first required installment payment on its prior year's
tax.
All tax-exempt organizations should use
Form 990-W (Worksheet), to figure their estimated tax.
Tax due with Form 990-T. Any tax due with
Form 990-T must be paid in full when the return
is filed, but no later than the date the return is
due (determined without extensions).

Federal Tax Deposits Must
be Made by Electronic Funds
Transfer
Electronic Deposit Requirement. The organization must deposit all depository taxes
(such as employment tax, excise tax, and corporate income tax) electronically. Generally,
electronic fund transfers are made using the
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System
(EFTPS). For more information about EFTPS or
to enroll in EFTPS, visit the EFTPS website at
EFTPS.gov,
or
call
1-800-555-4477,
1-800-733-4829 (TDD), or 1-800-244-4829
(Spanish). You can also get Pub. 966, Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: A Guide to
Getting Started.
Depositing on time. For EFTPS deposits to
be made timely, the organization must initiate
the deposit by 8 p.m. Eastern time the day before the deposit is due.
Same-day wire payment option. If you fail to
initiate a deposit transaction on EFTPS by 8
p.m. Eastern time the day before the date a deposit is due, you can still make your deposit on
time by using the Federal Tax Application
(FTA), a same-day federal tax payment system
that works in conjunction with EFTPS. Make arrangements with your financial institution ahead
of time, noting the institution's availability, deadlines, and costs, if you believe you would ever
need the same-day wire payment option. To
learn more, visit IRS.gov/SameDayWire and
The Tax and Filing Requirements

Page 3

also download the Same-Day Payment Worksheet.
Timeliness of deposits. The IRS uses business days to determine the timeliness of deposits. Business days are any day that isn't a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday in the District of
Columbia. See Pub. 583, Starting a Business
and Keeping Records.
If the organization owes tax and is filing
a paper Form 990-T, don't include the
CAUTION payment with the tax return. Instead,
use EFTPS.

!

3.
Unrelated Trade
or Business
Unrelated business income is the income from
a trade or business regularly conducted by an
exempt organization and not substantially related to the performance by the organization of its
exempt purpose or function. Use by the organization, of the profits derived from this activity,
does not, alone, make the activity substantially
related to the performance by the organization
of its exempt purpose or function.
Certain trade or business activities aren’t treated as an unrelated trade or business. See Excluded Trade or Business Activities, later.
Trade or business. The term “trade or business” generally includes any activity conducted
for the production of income from selling goods
or performing services. An activity must be conducted with intent to make a profit to constitute
a trade or business. An activity doesn’t lose its
identity as a trade or business merely because
it is conducted within a larger group of similar
activities that may or may not be related to the
exempt purposes of the organization.
For example, the regular sale of pharmaceutical supplies to the general public by a hospital pharmacy doesn’t lose its identity as a
trade or business, even though the pharmacy
also furnishes supplies to the hospital and patients of the hospital in accordance with its exempt purpose. Similarly, soliciting, selling, and
publishing commercial advertising is a trade or
business even though the advertising is published in an exempt organization's periodical
that contains editorial matter related to the organization's exempt purpose.
Regularly conducted. Business activities of
an exempt organization ordinarily are considered regularly conducted if they show a frequency and continuity, and are pursued in a
manner similar to comparable commercial activities of nonexempt organizations.
For example, a hospital auxiliary's operation
of a sandwich stand for 2 weeks at a state fair
would not be the regular conduct of a trade or
Page 4

Chapter 3

business. The stand would not compete with
similar facilities that a nonexempt organization
would ordinarily operate year-round. However,
operating a commercial parking lot every Saturday, year-round, would be the regular conduct
of a trade or business.
Not substantially related. A business activity
isn’t substantially related to an organization's
exempt purpose if it doesn’t contribute importantly to accomplishing that purpose (other than
through the production of funds). Whether an
activity contributes importantly depends in each
case on the facts involved.
In determining whether activities contribute
importantly to the accomplishment of an exempt purpose, the size and extent of the activities involved must be considered in relation to
the nature and extent of the exempt function
that they intend to serve. For example, to the
extent an activity is conducted on a scale larger
than is reasonably necessary to perform an exempt purpose, it doesn’t contribute importantly
to the accomplishment of the exempt purpose.
The part of the activity that is more than needed
to accomplish the exempt purpose is an unrelated trade or business.
Also in determining whether activities contribute importantly to the accomplishment of an
exempt purpose, the following principles apply.
Selling of products of exempt functions.
Ordinarily, selling products that result from the
performance of exempt functions isn’t an unrelated trade or business if the product is sold in
substantially the same state it is in when the exempt functions are completed. Thus, for an exempt organization engaged in rehabilitating
handicapped persons (its exempt function),
selling articles made by these persons as part
of their rehabilitation training is not an unrelated
trade or business.
However, if a completed product resulting
from an exempt function is used or exploited in
further business activity beyond what is reasonably appropriate or necessary to dispose of it as
is, the activity is an unrelated trade or business.
For example, if an exempt organization maintains an experimental dairy herd for scientific
purposes, the sale of milk and cream produced
in the ordinary course of operation of the project
isn’t an unrelated trade or business. But if the
organization uses the milk and cream in the further manufacture of food items such as ice
cream, pastries, etc., the sale of these products
is an unrelated trade or business unless the
manufacturing activities themselves contribute
importantly to the accomplishment of an exempt purpose of the organization.
Dual use of assets or facilities. If an asset or facility necessary to the conduct of exempt functions is also used in commercial activities, its use for exempt functions doesn’t, by
itself, make the commercial activities a related
trade or business. The test, as discussed earlier, is whether the activities contribute importantly to the accomplishment of exempt purposes.
For example, a museum has a theater auditorium designed for showing educational films
in connection with its program of public education in the arts and sciences. The theater is a
principal feature of the museum and operates
continuously while the museum is open to the

Unrelated Trade or Business

public. If the organization also operates the theater as a motion picture theater for the public
when the museum is closed, the activity is an
unrelated trade or business.
For information on allocating expenses for
the dual use of assets or facilities, see Deductions in chapter 4.
Exploitation of exempt functions. Exempt activities sometimes create goodwill or
other intangibles that can be exploited in a commercial way. When an organization exploits
such an intangible in commercial activities, the
fact that the income depends in part upon an
exempt function of the organization doesn’t
make the commercial activities a related trade
or business. Unless the commercial exploitation
contributes importantly to the accomplishment
of the exempt purpose, the commercial activities are an unrelated trade or business.
For the treatment of expenses attributable to
the exploitation of exempt activities, see Deductions in chapter 4.

Examples
The following are examples of activities that
were determined to be (or not to be) unrelated
trades or businesses using the definitions and
principles just discussed.
Artists' facilities. An organization whose exempt purpose is to stimulate and foster public
interest in the fine arts by promoting art exhibits,
sponsoring cultural events, and furnishing information about fine arts leases studio apartments
to artist tenants and operates a dining hall primarily for these tenants. These two activities
don’t contribute importantly to accomplishing
the organization's exempt purpose. Therefore,
they are unrelated trades or businesses.
Broadcasting rights. An exempt collegiate
athletic conference conducts an annual competitive athletic game between its conference
champion and another collegiate team. Income
is derived from admission charges and the sale
of exclusive broadcasting rights to a national radio and television network. An athletic program
is considered an integral part of the educational
process of a university.
The educational purposes served by intercollegiate athletics are identical whether conducted directly by individual universities or by
their regional athletic conference. Also, the educational purposes served by exhibiting a game
before an audience that is physically present
and exhibiting the game on television or radio
before a much larger audience are substantially
similar. Therefore, the sale of the broadcasting
rights contributes importantly to the accomplishment of the organization's exempt purpose and
isn’t an unrelated trade or business.
In a similar situation, an exempt organization
was created as a national governing body for
amateur athletes to foster interest in amateur
sports and to encourage widespread public participation. The organization receives income
each year from the sale of exclusive broadcasting rights to an independent producer, who contracts with a commercial network to broadcast
many of the athletic events sponsored, supervised, and regulated by the organization.

The broadcasting of these events promotes
the various amateur sports, fosters widespread
public interest in the benefits of the organization's nationwide amateur program, and encourages public participation. The sale of the rights
and the broadcasting of the events contribute
importantly to the organization's exempt purpose. Therefore, the sale of the exclusive
broadcasting rights isn’t an unrelated trade or
business.
Business league's parking and bus services. The exempt purpose of a business league is to retain and stimulate trade in a downtown area that has inadequate parking facilities.
The organization operates, as an insubstantial
part of its activities, a park-and-shop plan.
The park-and-shop plan allows customers of
particular merchants to park free at certain
parking lots in the area. Merchants participating
in this plan buy parking stamps, which they distribute to their customers to use to pay for parking.
The park-and-shop plan encourages customers to use a limited number of participating
member merchants in order to obtain free parking. This provides a particular service to individual members of the organization and doesn’t
further its exempt purpose. Therefore, operating
the park-and-shop plan is an unrelated trade or
business.
Halfway house workshop. A halfway house
organized to provide room, board, therapy, and
counseling for persons discharged from alcoholic treatment centers also operates a furniture
shop to provide full-time employment for its residents. The profits are applied to the operating
costs of the halfway house. The income from
this venture isn’t unrelated trade or business income because the furniture shop contributes
importantly to the organization's purpose of aiding its residents' transition from treatment to a
normal and productive life.
Health club program. An exempt charitable
organization's purpose is to provide for the welfare of young people. The organization conducts charitable activities and maintains facilities that will contribute to the physical, social,
mental, and spiritual health of young people at
minimum or no cost to them. Nominal annual
dues are charged for membership in the organization and use of the facilities.
In addition, the organization organized a
health club program that its members could join
for an annual fee in addition to the annual dues.
The annual fee is comparable to fees charged
by similar local commercial health clubs and is
sufficiently high to restrict participation in the
program to a limited number of members of the
community.
The health club program is in addition to the
general physical fitness program of the organization. Operating this program does not contribute importantly to the organization's accomplishing its exempt purpose and, therefore, is
an unrelated trade or business if there is a intent to make a profit.
Hospital facilities. An exempt hospital leases
its adjacent office building and furnishes certain
office services to a hospital-based medical
group for a fee. The group provides all diagnos-

tic and therapeutic procedures to the hospital's
patients and operates the hospital's emergency
room on a 24-hour basis. The leasing activity is
substantially related to the hospital's exempt
purpose and isn’t an unrelated trade or business.
The hospital also operates a gift shop
patronized by patients, visitors making purchases for patients, and employees; a cafeteria
and coffee shop primarily for employees and
medical staff; and a parking lot for patients and
visitors only. These activities are substantially
related to the hospital's exempt purpose and
don’t constitute unrelated trades or businesses.
Insurance programs. An organization that
acts as a group insurance policyholder for its
members and collects a fee for performing administrative services is normally carrying on an
unrelated trade or business.
Exceptions. Administrative services provided by an organization whose exempt activities
may include the provision of insurance benefits,
such as fraternal beneficiary societies, voluntary employees beneficiary associations, and
labor organizations, are generally not an unrelated trade or business.
Magazine publishing. An association of credit
unions with tax-exempt status as a business
league publishes a consumer-oriented magazine four times a year and makes it available to
member credit unions for purchase.
By selling a magazine to its members as a
promotional device, the organization furnishes
its members with a regular commercial service
they can use in their own operations. This service doesn’t promote the improvement of business conditions of one or more lines of business, which is the exempt purpose of a
business league.
Since the activity doesn’t contribute importantly to the organization's exempt function, it is
an unrelated trade or business.
Membership list sales. An exempt educational organization regularly sells membership
mailing lists to business firms. This activity
doesn’t contribute importantly to the accomplishment of the organization's exempt purpose
and therefore is an unrelated trade or business.
Also see Exchange or rental of member lists under Excluded Trade or Business Activities, later.
Miniature golf course. An exempt youth welfare organization operates a miniature golf
course that is open to the general public. The
course, which is managed by salaried employees, is substantially similar to commercial courses. The admission fees charged are comparable to fees of commercial facilities and are
designed to return a profit.
The operation of the miniature golf course in
a commercial manner doesn’t contribute importantly to the accomplishment of the organization's exempt purpose and, therefore, is an unrelated trade or business.
Museum eating facilities. An exempt art museum operates a dining room, a cafeteria, and a
snack bar for use by the museum staff, employees, and visitors. Eating facilities in the museum
help to attract visitors and allow them to spend

more time viewing the museum's exhibits without having to seek outside restaurants at mealtime. The eating facilities also allow the museum staff and employees to remain in the
museum throughout the day. Thus, the museum's operation of the eating facilities contributes importantly to the accomplishment of its
exempt purposes and isn’t an unrelated trade or
business.
Museum greeting card sales. An art museum that exhibits modern art sells greeting
cards that display printed reproductions of selected works from other art collections. Each
card is imprinted with the name of the artist, the
title or subject matter of the work, the date or
period of its creation, if known, and the museum's name. The cards contain appropriate
greetings and are personalized on request.
The organization sells the cards in the shop
it operates in the museum and sells them at
quantity discounts to retail stores. The museum
also sells greeting cards by mail order through a
catalog that is advertised in magazines and
other publications throughout the year. As a result, a large number of cards are sold at a significant profit.
The museum is exempt as an educational
organization on the basis of its ownership,
maintenance, and exhibition for public viewing
of works of art. The sale of greeting cards with
printed reproductions of artworks contributes
importantly to the achievement of the museum's
exempt educational purposes by enhancing
public awareness, interest, and appreciation of
art. The cards may encourage more people to
visit the museum itself to share in its educational programs. The fact that the cards are promoted and sold in a commercial manner at a
profit and in competition with commercial greeting card publishers doesn’t alter the fact that the
activity is related to the museum's exempt purpose. Therefore, these sales activities aren’t an
unrelated trade or business.
Museum shop. An art museum maintained
and operated for the exhibition of American folk
art operates a shop in the museum that sells:
1. Reproductions of works in the museum's
own collection and reproductions of artistic works from the collections of other art
museums (prints suitable for framing,
postcards, greeting cards, and slides);
2. Metal, wood, and ceramic copies of American folk art objects from its own collection
and similar copies of art objects from other
collections of artworks;
3. Instructional literature and scientific books
and souvenir items concerning the history
and development of art and, in particular,
of American folk art; and
4. Scientific books and souvenir items of the
city in which the museum is located.
The shop also rents originals or reproductions of paintings contained in its collection. All
of its reproductions are imprinted with the name
of the artist, the title or subject matter of the
work from which it is reproduced, and the museum's name.

Chapter 3

Unrelated Trade or Business

Page 5

Each line of merchandise must be considered separately to determine if sales are related
to the exempt purpose.
The sale and rental of reproductions and
copies of works from the museum's own collection and reproductions of artistic works not
owned by the museum contribute importantly to
the achievement of the museum's exempt educational purpose by making works of art familiar
to a broader segment of the public, thereby enhancing the public's understanding and appreciation of art. The same is true for the sale of literature relating to art. Therefore, these sales
activities aren’t an unrelated trade or business.
On the other hand, the sale (if they intend to
make a profit) of scientific books and souvenir
items of the city where the museum is located
has no causal relationship to art or to artistic endeavor and, therefore, doesn’t contribute importantly to the accomplishment of the museum's
exempt educational purposes. Even though
selling some of these items could, in a different
context, be related to the exempt educational
purpose of a different exempt educational organization doesn’t change this conclusion. Additionally, the sale of these items doesn’t lose
its character as an unrelated trade or business
merely because the museum also sells articles
that contribute importantly to the accomplishment of its exempt function. Therefore, these
sales by the museum in this example are an unrelated trade or business.
Nonpatient laboratory testing. Nonpatient
laboratory testing performed by a tax-exempt
teaching hospital on specimens needed for the
conduct of its teaching activities isn’t an unrelated trade or business. However, laboratory testing performed by a tax-exempt non-teaching
hospital on referred specimens from private office patients of staff physicians is an unrelated
trade or business if these services are otherwise available in the community.
Pet boarding and grooming services. An
exempt organization, organized and operated
for the prevention of cruelty to animals, receives
unrelated business income from providing pet
boarding and grooming services for the general
public. These activities don’t contribute importantly to its purpose of preventing cruelty to animals.
Publishing legal notices. A bar association
publishes a legal journal containing opinions of
the county court, articles of professional interest
to lawyers, advertisements for products and
services used by the legal profession, and legal
notices. The legal notices are published to satisfy state laws requiring publication of notices in
connection with legal proceedings, such as the
administration of estates and actions to quiet title to real property. The state designated the
bar association's journal as the place to publish
the required notices.
The publication of ordinary commercial advertising doesn’t advance the exempt purposes
of the association even when published in a periodical that contains material related to exempt
purposes. Although the advertising is directed
specifically to members of the legal profession,
it is still commercial in nature and doesn’t contribute importantly to the exempt purposes of
Page 6

Chapter 3

the association. Therefore, the advertising income is unrelated trade or business income.
On the other hand, the publication of legal
notices is distinguishable from ordinary commercial advertising in that its purpose is to inform the general public of significant legal
events rather than to stimulate demand for the
products or services of an advertiser. This promotes the common interests of the legal profession and contributes importantly to the association's exempt purposes. Therefore, the
publishing of legal notices doesn’t constitute an
unrelated trade or business.
Directory of members. A business league
publishes an annual directory that contains a list
of all its members, their addresses, and their
area of expertise. Each member has the same
amount of space in the directory, and its format
doesn’t emphasize the relative importance or
reputation of any member. The directory contains no commercial advertisement and is sold
only to the organization's members.
The directory facilitates communication
among the members and encourages the exchange of ideas and expertise. Because the directory lists the members in a similar noncommercial format without advertising and isn’t
distributed to the public, its sale doesn’t confer
private commercial benefits on the members.
The sale of the directory does contribute importantly to the organization's exempt purpose and
isn’t an unrelated trade or business. This directory differs from the publication discussed next
because of its noncommercial characteristics.
Sales of advertising space. A national association of law enforcement officials publishes a
monthly journal that contains articles and other
editorial material of professional interest to its
members. The journal is distributed without
charge, mainly to the organization's members.
The organization sells advertising space in
the journal either for conventional advertising or
to merely identify the purchaser without a commercial message. Some of the noncommercial
advertising identifies the purchaser in a separate space, and some consists of listings of 60
or more purchasers per page. A business firm
identified in a separate space is further identified in an Index of Advertisers.
The organization solicits advertising by personal contacts. Advertising from large firms is
solicited by contacting their chief executive officer or community relations officer rather than
their advertising manager. The organization
also solicits advertising in form letters appealing
for corporate and personal contributions.
An exempt organization's sale of advertising
placed for the purchaser's commercial benefit is
a commercial activity. Goodwill derived by the
purchaser from being identified as a patron of
the organization is usually considered a form of
commercial benefit. Therefore, advertising in an
exempt organization's publication is generally
presumed to be placed for the purchaser's commercial benefit, even if it has no commercial
message. However, this presumption isn’t conclusive if the purchaser's patronage would be
difficult to justify commercially in view of the
facts and circumstances. In that case, other factors should also be considered in determining
whether a commercial benefit can be expected.
Those other factors include:

Unrelated Trade or Business

1. The normal manner in which the publication is circulated;
2. The territorial scope of the circulation;
3. The extent to which its readers, promoters, or the like could reasonably be expected to further, either directly or indirectly,
the commercial interest of the advertisers;
4. The eligibility of the publishing organization to receive tax-deductible contributions; and
5. The commercial or noncommercial methods used to solicit the advertisers.
In this situation, the purchaser of a separate
advertising space without a commercial message can nevertheless expect a commercial
benefit from the goodwill derived from being
identified in that manner as a patron of the organization. However, the purchaser of a listing
can’t expect more than an inconsequential benefit. Therefore, the sale of separate spaces, but
not the listings, is an unrelated trade or business.
Sales of cattle for commissions. An agricultural organization, whose exempt purposes are
to promote better conditions for cattle breeders
and to improve the breed generally, engages in
an unrelated trade or business when it regularly
sells cattle for its members on a commission
basis.
Sales of hearing aids. A tax-exempt hospital,
whose primary activity is rehabilitation, sells
hearing aids to patients. This activity is an essential part of the hospital's program to test and
evaluate patients with hearing deficiencies and
contributes importantly to its exempt purpose.
The hearing aid sales aren't an unrelated trade
or business.
School facilities. An exempt school has tennis courts and dressing rooms that it uses during the regular school year in its educational
program. During the summer, the school operates a tennis club open to the general public.
Employees of the school run the club, including
collecting membership fees and scheduling
court time.
Another exempt school leases the same
type of facilities to an unrelated individual who
runs a tennis club for the summer. The lease is
for a fixed fee that doesn’t depend on the income or profits derived from the leased property.
In both situations, the organization’s exempt
purpose is the advancement of education. Furnishing tennis facilities in the manner described
doesn't further that exempt purpose. These activities are unrelated trades or businesses.
However, in the second situation the income
derived from the leasing of the property may be
excluded from UBTI as rent from real property.
See Rents under Exclusions in chapter 4.
School handicraft shop. An exempt vocational school operates a handicraft shop that
sells articles made by students in their regular
courses of instruction. The students are paid a
percentage of the sales price. In addition, the
shop sells products made by local residents
who make articles at home according to the

shop's specifications. The shop manager periodically inspects the articles during their manufacture to ensure that they meet desired standards of style and quality. Although many local
participants are former students of the school,
any qualified person may participate in the program. The sale of articles made by students
doesn’t constitute an unrelated trade or business, but the sale of products made by local
residents is an unrelated trade or business and
is subject to unrelated business income tax.
Selling endorsements. An exempt scientific
organization enjoys an excellent reputation in
the field of biological research. It exploits this
reputation regularly by selling endorsements of
laboratory equipment to manufacturers. Endorsing laboratory equipment doesn’t contribute
importantly to the accomplishment of any purpose for which exemption is granted to the organization. Accordingly, the sale of endorsements is an unrelated trade or business.
Services provided with lease. An exempt
university leases its football stadium during several months of the year to a professional football team for a fixed fee. Under the lease agreement, the university furnishes heat, light, and
water and is responsible for all ground maintenance. It also provides dressing room, linen,
and stadium security services for the professional team.
Leasing of the stadium is an unrelated trade
or business. In addition, the substantial services
furnished for the convenience of the lessee go
beyond those usually provided with the rental of
space for occupancy only. Therefore, the income from this lease is rent from real property
and unrelated business taxable income.
Sponsoring entertainment events. An exempt university has a regular faculty and a regularly enrolled student body. During the school
year, the university sponsors the appearance of
professional theater companies and symphony
orchestras that present drama and musical performances for the students and faculty members. Members of the general public also are
admitted. The university advertises these performances and supervises advance ticket sales
at various places, including such university facilities as the cafeteria and the university bookstore. Although the presentation of the performances makes use of an intangible generated by
the university's exempt educational functions—the presence of the student body and
faculty—such drama and music events contribute importantly to the overall educational and
cultural functions of the university. Therefore,
the activity isn’t an unrelated trade or business.
Travel tour programs. Travel tour activities
that are a trade or business are an unrelated
trade or business if the activities aren’t substantially related to the purpose for which tax exemption was granted to the organization.
Example 1. A tax-exempt university alumni
association provides a travel tour program for
its members and their families. The organization
works with various travel agencies and schedules approximately ten tours a year to various
places around the world. It mails out promotional material and accepts reservations for fees

paid by the travel agencies on a per-person basis.
The organization provides an employee for
each tour as a tour leader. There is no formal
educational program conducted with these
tours, and they don’t differ from regular commercially operated tours (if there is a intent to
make a profit).
By providing travel tours to its members, the
organization is engaging in a regularly conducted trade or business. Even if the tours it offers
support the university, financially and otherwise,
and encourage alumni to do the same, the
travel tours don’t contribute importantly to the
organization's exempt purpose of promoting education. Therefore, the sale of the travel tours is
an unrelated trade or business.
Example 2. A tax-exempt organization
formed for the purpose of educating individuals
about the geography and the culture of the United States provides study tours to national
parks and other locations within the United
States. These tours are conducted by teachers
and others certified by the state board of education. The tours are primarily designed for students enrolled in degree programs at state educational institutions but are open to all who
agree to participate in the required study program associated with the tour taken. A tour's
study program consists of instruction on subjects related to the location being visited on the
tour. Each tour group brings along a library of
material related to the subjects being studied on
the tour. During the tour, 5 or 6 hours per day
are devoted to organized study, preparation of
reports, lectures, instruction, and recitation by
the students. Examinations are given at the end
of each tour. The state board of education
awards academic credit for tour participation.
Because these tours are substantially related to
the organization's exempt purpose, they aren’t
an unrelated trade or business.
Yearbook advertising. An exempt organization receives income from the sale of advertising in its annual yearbook. The organization
hires an independent commercial firm, under a
contract covering a full calendar year, to conduct an intensive advertising solicitation campaign in the organization's name. This firm is
paid a percentage of the gross advertising receipts for selling the advertising, collecting from
advertisers, and printing the yearbook. This advertising activity is an unrelated trade or business.
Youth residence. An exempt organization,
whose purpose is to provide for the welfare of
young people, rents rooms primarily to people
under age 25. The residence units are operated
on, and as a part of, the premises in which the
organization carries on the social, recreational,
and guidance programs for which it was recognized as exempt. The facilities are under the
management and supervision of trained career
professionals who provide residents with personal counseling, physical education programs,
and group recreational activities. The rentals
aren’t an unrelated trade or business because
renting the rooms is substantially related to the
organization's exempt purpose.

Excluded Trade or
Business Activities
The following activities are specifically excluded
from the definition of unrelated trade or business.
Gaming. In general, games of chance do not
further an exempt purpose. An exempt organization that generates revenue from the conduct
of activities will be operating an unrelated trade
or business, unless a exception applies. The
exceptions to the general rule (that gaming
does not usually further an exempt purpose) include organizations whose exempt purposes include social or recreational activities. For these
organizations, gaming itself may further an exempt purpose.
More information about gaming activities by
exempt organizations can be found in Publication 3079, Tax-Exempt Organizations and Gaming.
Bingo games. Bingo games may qualify for a
specific exclusion from the definition of unrelated trade or business. To qualify for this exclusion, the bingo game must meet the following
requirements.
1. It meets the legal definition of bingo.
2. It is legal where it is played.
3. It is played in a jurisdiction where bingo
games aren’t regularly conducted by
for-profit organizations.
Gambling activities other than bingo.
Games of chance conducted by an exempt organization may avoid being treated as an unrelated trade or business if they are:
• Conducted with substantially all volunteer
labor,
• Qualified public entertainment activities,
and
• Games of chance conducted in North Dakota.
Legal definition. For a game to meet the
legal definition of bingo, wagers must be
placed, winners must be determined, and prizes or other property must be distributed in the
presence of all persons placing wagers in that
game.
A wagering game that doesn’t meet the legal definition of bingo doesn’t qualify for the exclusion, regardless of its name. For example,
“instant bingo,” in which a player buys a prepackaged bingo card with pull-tabs that the
player removes to determine if he or she is a
winner, doesn’t qualify.
Legal where played. This exclusion applies only if bingo is legal under the laws of the
jurisdiction where it is conducted. The fact that
a jurisdiction's law that prohibits bingo is rarely
enforced or is widely disregarded doesn’t make
the conduct of bingo legal for the exception and
is therefore an unrelated trade or business.
No for-profit games where played. This
exclusion applies only if for-profit organizations
can’t regularly conduct bingo games in any part
of the same jurisdiction. Jurisdiction is normally

Chapter 3

Unrelated Trade or Business

Page 7

the entire state; however, in certain situations,
local jurisdiction will control.
Example. Tax-exempt organizations X and
Y are organized under the laws of state N,
which has a law that permits exempt organizations to conduct bingo games. In addition,
for-profit organizations are permitted to conduct
bingo games in city S, a resort community located in county R. Several for-profit organizations
conduct nightly games. Y conducts weekly
bingo games in city S, while X conducts weekly
games in county R. Since state law confines the
for-profit organizations to city S, local jurisdiction controls. Y's bingo games conducted in city
S are an unrelated trade or business. However,
X's bingo games conducted in county R outside
of city S aren’t an unrelated trade or business.
See Pub. 3079, for more detailed information.
Convenience of members. A trade or business conducted by a 501(c)(3) organization or
by a state college or university primarily for the
convenience of its members, students, patients,
officers, or employees isn’t an unrelated trade
or business. For example, a laundry operated
by a college for the purpose of laundering dormitory linens and students' clothing isn’t an unrelated trade or business.
Convention or trade show activity. An unrelated trade or business doesn’t include qualified
convention or trade show activities conducted
at a convention, annual meeting, or trade show.
A qualified convention or trade show activity
is any activity of a kind traditionally conducted
by a qualifying organization in conjunction with
an international, national, state, regional, or local convention, annual meeting, or show if:
1. One of the purposes of the organization in
sponsoring the activity is promoting and
stimulating interest in, and demand for, the
products and services of that industry or
educating the persons in attendance regarding new products and services or new
rules and regulations affecting the industry; and
2. The show is designed to achieve its purpose through the character of the exhibits
and the extent of the industry products
that are displayed.
For these purposes, a qualifying organization is one described in section 501(c)(3),
501(c)(4), 501(c)(5), or 501(c)(6). The organization must regularly conduct, as one of its substantial exempt purposes, a qualified convention or trade show activity.
The rental of display space to exhibitors (including exhibitors who are suppliers) at a qualified convention or trade show isn’t an unrelated
trade or business even if the exhibitors who rent
the space are permitted to sell or solicit orders.
For this purpose, a supplier's exhibit is one in
which the exhibitor displays goods or services
that are supplied to, rather than by, members of
the qualifying organization in the conduct of
these members' own trades or businesses.
Certain Internet activities conducted by a
trade association described in section 501(c)(6)
will be considered qualified convention and
trade show activity if conducted on a special
Page 8

Chapter 3

supplementary section of the association's
website in conjunction with a trade show conducted by the association. The trade show itself
must be a qualified convention and trade show
activity. The supplementary section of the website must be ancillary to, and serve to augment
and enhance, the trade show, as when it makes
available the same information available at the
trade show and is available only during a time
period that coincides with the time period that
the trade show is in operation. Conversely, Internet activities that aren’t conducted in conjunction with a qualified convention and trade
show activity and that don’t augment and enhance the trade show can’t themselves be
qualified convention and trade show activity.
Distribution of low-cost articles. The term
“unrelated trade or business” doesn’t include
activities relating to the distribution of low-cost
articles incidental to soliciting charitable contributions. This applies to organizations described
in section 501 that are eligible to receive charitable income tax deductible contributions.
A distribution is considered incidental to the
solicitation of a charitable contribution if:
1. The recipient didn’t request the distribution,
2. The distribution is made without the express consent of the recipient, and
3. The article is accompanied by a request
for a charitable contribution to the organization and a statement that the recipient
may keep the low-cost article regardless
of whether a contribution is made.
An article is considered low cost if the cost
of an item (or the aggregate costs if more than
one item) distributed to a single recipient in a
tax year isn’t more than $11.20 (in 2020), indexed annually for inflation. The cost of an article is the cost to the organization that distributes the item or on whose behalf it is
distributed.
Employee association sales. The sale of certain items by a local association of employees
described in section 501(c)(4), organized before May 17, 1969, isn’t an unrelated trade or
business if the items are sold for the convenience of the association's members at their
usual place of employment. This exclusion applies only to the sale of work-related clothes
and equipment and items normally sold through
vending machines, food dispensing facilities, or
by snack bars.
Exchange or rental of member lists. The exchange or rental of member or donor lists between organizations described in section 501
that are eligible to receive charitable contributions isn’t included in the term unrelated trade
or business.
Hospital services. The providing of certain
services at or below cost by an exempt hospital
to other exempt hospitals that have facilities for
100 or fewer inpatients isn’t an unrelated trade
or business. This exclusion applies only to services described in section 501(e)(1)(A).
Pole rentals. The term unrelated trade or business doesn’t include qualified pole rentals by a

Unrelated Trade or Business

mutual or cooperative telephone or electric
company described in section 501(c)(12). A
qualified pole rental is the rental of a pole (or
other structure used to support wires) if the pole
(or other structure) is used:
1. By the telephone or electric company to
support one or more wires that the company uses in providing telephone or electric services to its members, and
2. According to the rental, to support one or
more wires (in addition to the wires described in 1) for use in connection with the
transmission by wire of electricity or of telephone or other communications.
For this purpose, the term rental includes any
sale of the right to use the pole (or other structure).
Public entertainment activity. An unrelated
trade or business doesn’t include a qualified
public entertainment activity. A public entertainment activity is one traditionally conducted at a
fair or exposition promoting agriculture and education, including any activity whose purpose is
designed to attract the public to fairs or expositions or to promote the breeding of animals or
the development of products or equipment.
A qualified public entertainment activity is
one conducted by a qualifying organization:
1. In conjunction with an international, national, state, regional, or local fair or exposition;
2. In accordance with state law that permits
the activity to be operated or conducted
solely by such an organization or by an
agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision of the state; or
3. In accordance with state law that permits
an organization to be granted a license to
conduct an activity for not more than 20
days on paying the state a lower percentage of the revenue from the activity than
the state charges nonqualifying organizations that hold similar activities.
For these purposes, a qualifying organization is an organization described in section
501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), or 501(c)(5) that regularly
conducts an agricultural and educational fair or
exposition as one of its substantial exempt purposes. Its conducting qualified public entertainment activities will not affect determination of its
exempt status.
Qualified sponsorship activities. Receiving
qualified sponsorship payments isn’t an unrelated trade or business, and the payments aren’t
subject to unrelated business income tax.
Qualified sponsorship payment. This is
any payment made by a person engaged in a
trade or business for which the person will receive no substantial benefit other than the use
or acknowledgment of the business name, logo,
or product lines in connection with the organization's activities. “Use or acknowledgment”
doesn’t include advertising the sponsor's products or services. The organization's activities include all its activities, whether or not related to
its exempt purposes.
For example, if, in return for receiving a
sponsorship
payment,
an
organization

promises to use the sponsor's name or logo in
acknowledging the sponsor's support for an educational or fundraising event, the payment is a
qualified sponsorship payment and isn’t subject
to the unrelated business income tax.
Providing facilities, services, or other privileges (for example, complimentary tickets,
pro-am playing spots in golf tournaments, or receptions for major donors) to a sponsor or the
sponsor's designees in connection with a sponsorship payment does not affect whether the
payment is a qualified sponsorship payment. Instead, providing these goods or services is treated as a separate transaction in determining
whether the organization has unrelated business income from the event. Generally, if the
services or facilities aren’t a substantial benefit
or if providing them is a related business activity, the payments will not be subject to the unrelated business income tax.
Similarly, the sponsor's receipt of a license
to use an intangible asset (for example, a trademark, logo, or designation) of the organization
is treated as separate from the qualified sponsorship transaction in determining whether the
organization has UBTI.
If part of a payment would be a qualified
sponsorship payment if paid separately, that
part is treated as a separate payment. For example, if a sponsorship payment entitles the
sponsor to both product advertising and the use
or acknowledgment of the sponsor's name or
logo by the organization, then the unrelated
business income tax doesn’t apply to the part of
the payment that is more than the fair market
value of the product advertising.
Advertising. A payment isn’t a qualified
sponsorship payment if, in return, the organization advertises the sponsor's products or services. For information on the treatment of payments for advertising, see Exploitation of
Exempt Activity—Advertising Sales in chapter 4.
Advertising includes:
1. Messages containing qualitative or comparative language, price information, or
other indications of savings or value;
2. Endorsements; and
3. Inducements to purchase, sell, or use the
products or services.
The use of promotional logos or slogans that
are an established part of the sponsor's identity
isn’t, by itself, advertising. In addition, mere distribution or display of a sponsor's product by the
organization to the public at a sponsored event,
whether for free or for remuneration, is considered use or acknowledgment of the product
rather than advertising.
Exception for contingent payments. A
payment isn’t a qualified sponsorship payment
if its amount is contingent, by contract or otherwise, upon the level of attendance at one or
more events, broadcast ratings, or other factors
indicating the degree of public exposure to one
or more events. However, the fact that a sponsorship payment is contingent upon an event
actually taking place or being broadcast
doesn’t, by itself, affect whether a payment
qualifies.

Exception for conventions and trade
shows. A payment isn’t a qualified sponsorship payment if it is made in connection with
any qualified convention or trade show activity.
The exclusion of qualified convention or trade
show activities from the definition of unrelated
trade or business is explained earlier under
Convention or trade show activity.

4.

Unrelated
Exception for periodicals. A payment
Business
isn’t a qualified sponsorship payment if it entitles the payer to the use or acknowledgment of
the business name, logo, or product lines in the Taxable Income

organization's periodical. For this purpose, a
periodical is any regularly scheduled and printed material (for example, a monthly journal)
published by or on behalf of the organization. It
doesn’t include material that is related to and
primarily distributed in connection with a specific event conducted by the organization (for
example, a program or brochure distributed at a
sponsored event).
The treatment of payments that entitle the
payer to the depiction of the payer's name,
logo, or product lines in an organization's periodical is determined under the rules that apply
to advertising activities. See Sales of advertising space under Examples, earlier in this chapter. Also see Exploitation of Exempt Activity—Advertising Sales in chapter 4.

Selling donated merchandise. A trade or
business that consists of selling merchandise,
substantially all of which the organization received as gifts or contributions, isn’t an unrelated trade or business. For example, a thrift shop
operated by a tax-exempt organization that
sells donated clothes and books to the general
public, with the proceeds going to the exempt
organization, isn’t an unrelated trade or business.
Volunteer workforce. Any trade or business
in which substantially all the work is performed
for the organization without compensation isn’t
an unrelated trade or business.
Example 1. A retail store operated by an
exempt orphanage where unpaid volunteers
perform substantially all the work in carrying on
the business isn’t an unrelated trade or business.
Example 2. A volunteer fire company conducts weekly public dances. Holding public
dances and charging admission on a regular
basis may, given the facts and circumstances of
a particular case, be considered an unrelated
trade or business. However, because the work
at the dances is performed by unpaid volunteers, the activity isn’t an unrelated trade or
business.

The term “unrelated business taxable income”
(UBTI) generally means the gross income derived from any unrelated trade or business regularly conducted by the exempt organization,
less the deductions directly connected with carrying on the trade or business. Section 512(a)
(6) requires an organization that regularly carries on two or more unrelated business activities to calculate its unrelated business taxable
income, including for purposes of determining
any net operating loss deduction, separately
with respect to each such trade or business.
The UBTI of the organization is the sum of the
UBTI computed from each separate unrelated
trade or business. For the purpose of this sum,
the UBTI from any of the unrelated trades or
businesses can't be less than zero. See Regulations section 1.512(a)-6 for more information.
In computing UBTI, gross income and deductions are subject to the modifications and special rules explained in this chapter. Whether a
particular item of income or expense falls within
any of these modifications or special rules must
be determined by all the facts and circumstances in each specific case. For example, if the
organization received a payment termed rent
that is in fact a return of profits by a person operating the property for the benefit of the organization, or that is a share of the profits retained
by the organization as a partner or joint venturer, the payment isn’t within the income exclusion for rents, discussed later under Exclusions.

Income
Generally, unrelated business income is taxable, but there are exclusions and special rules
that must be considered when figuring the income.

Exclusions
The following types of income (and deductions
directly connected with the income) are generally excluded when figuring UBTI.
Dividends, interest, annuities, and other investment income. All dividends, interest, annuities, payments with respect to securities
loans, income from notional principal contracts,
and other income from an exempt organization's ordinary and routine investments that the
IRS determines are substantially similar to
these types of income are excluded in computing UBTI.
Exception for insurance activity income
of a controlled foreign corporation. This

Chapter 4

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

Page 9

exclusion doesn’t apply to income from certain
insurance activities of an exempt organization's
controlled foreign corporation. The income isn’t
excludable dividend income, but instead is
UBTI to the extent it would be so treated if the
exempt organization had earned it directly. Certain exceptions to this rule apply. For more information, see section 512(b)(17).
Other exceptions. This exclusion doesn’t
apply to unrelated debt-financed income (discussed under Income From Debt-Financed
Property, later), or to certain rents, royalties, interest or annuities received from a controlled
corporation (discussed under Income From
Controlled Organizations, later).
Income from lending securities. Payments received with respect to a security loan
are excluded in computing UBTI only if the loan
is made under an agreement that:
1. Provides for the return to the exempt organization of securities identical to the securities loaned,
2. Requires payments to the organization of
amounts equivalent to all interest, dividends, and other distributions that the
owner of the securities is entitled to receive during the period of the loan,
3. Doesn’t reduce the organization's risk of
loss or opportunity for gain on the securities,
4. Contains reasonable procedures to implement the obligation of the borrower to furnish collateral to the organization with a
fair market value each business day during the period of the loan in an amount not
less than the fair market value of the securities at the close of the preceding business day, and
5. Permits the organization to terminate the
loan upon notice of not more than 5 business days.
Payments with respect to securities loans include:
1. Amounts in respect of dividends, interest,
and other distributions,
2. Fees based on the period of time the loan
is in effect and the fair market value of the
security during that period,
3. Income from collateral security for the
loan, and
4. Income from the investment of collateral
security.
The payments are considered to be from the
securities loaned and not from collateral security or the investment of collateral security from
the loans. Any deductions that are directly connected with collateral security for the loan, or
with the investment of collateral security, are
considered deductions that are directly connected with the securities loaned.
Royalties. Royalties, including overriding royalties, are excluded in computing UBTI.
To be considered a royalty, a payment must
relate to the use of a valuable right. Payments
for trademarks, trade names, or copyrights are
ordinarily considered royalties. Similarly,
Page 10

Chapter 4

payments for the use of a professional athlete's
name, photograph, likeness, or facsimile signature are ordinarily considered royalties. However, royalties don’t include payments for personal services. Therefore, payments for
personal appearances and interviews aren’t excluded as royalties and must be included in figuring UBTI.
Unrelated business taxable income doesn’t
include royalty income received from licensees
by an exempt organization that is the legal and
beneficial owner of patents assigned to it by inventors for specified percentages of future royalties.
Mineral royalties are excluded whether
measured by production or by gross or taxable
income from the mineral property. However, the
exclusion doesn’t apply to royalties that stem
from an arrangement whereby the organization
owns a working interest in a mineral property
and is liable for its share of the development
and operating costs under the terms of its
agreement with the operator of the property. To
the extent they aren’t treated as loans under
section 636 (relating to income tax treatment of
mineral production payments), payments for
mineral production are treated in the same
manner as royalty payments for the purpose of
computing UBTI. To the extent they are treated
as loans, any payments for production that are
the equivalent of interest are treated as interest
and are excluded.
Exceptions. This exclusion doesn’t apply
to debt-financed income (discussed under Income From Debt-Financed Property, later) or to
royalties received from a controlled corporation
(discussed under Income From Controlled Organizations, later).
Rents. Rents from real property, including elevators and escalators, are excluded in computing UBTI. Rents from personal property aren’t
excluded. However, special rules apply to
“mixed leases” of both real and personal property.
Mixed leases. In a mixed lease, all of the
rents are excluded if the rents attributable to the
personal property aren’t more than 10% of the
total rents under the lease, as determined when
the personal property is first placed in service
by the lessee. If the rents attributable to personal property are more than 10% but not more
than 50% of the total rents, only the rents attributable to the real property are excluded. If the
rents attributable to the personal property are
more than 50% of the total rents, none of the
rents are excludable.
Property is placed in service when the lessee first may use it under the terms of a lease.
For example, property subject to a lease entered into on November 1, for a term starting on
January 1 of the next year, is considered placed
in service on January 1, regardless of when the
lessee first actually uses it.
If separate leases are entered into for real
and personal property and the properties have
an integrated use (for example, one or more
leases for real property and another lease or
leases for personal property to be used on the
real property), all the leases will be considered
as one lease.

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

The rent attributable to the personal property must be recomputed, and the treatment of
the rents must be redetermined, if:
1. The rent attributable to all the leased personal property increases by 100% or more
because additional or substitute personal
property is placed in service, or
2. The lease is modified to change the rent
charged (whether or not the amount of
rented personal property changes).
Any change in the treatment of rents resulting
from the recomputation is effective only for the
period beginning with the event that caused the
recomputation.
Exception for rents based on net profit.
The exclusion for rents doesn’t apply if the
amount of the rent depends on the income or
profits derived by any person from the leased
property, other than an amount based on a
fixed percentage of the gross receipts or sales.
Exception for income from personal
services. Payment for occupying space when
personal services are also rendered to the occupant doesn’t constitute rent from real property. Therefore, the exclusion doesn’t apply to
transactions such as renting hotel rooms,
rooms in boarding houses or tourist homes, and
space in parking lots or warehouses.
Other exceptions. This exclusion doesn’t
apply to unrelated debt-financed income (discussed under Income From Debt-Financed
Property, later), or to interest, annuities, royalties and rents received from a controlled corporation (discussed under Income From Controlled Organizations, later), or investment income
(dividends, interest, rents, etc.) received by organizations described in sections 501(c)(7),
501(c)(9), and 501(c)(17). See Special Rules
for Social Clubs, VEBAs, and SUBs, discussed
later, for more information.
Income from research. A tax-exempt organization may exclude income from research
grants or contracts from UBTI. However, the extent of the exclusion depends on the nature of
the organization and the type of research.
Income from research for the United States,
any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or a
state or any of its political subdivisions is excluded when computing UBTI.
For a college, university, or hospital, all income from research, whether fundamental or
applied, is excluded in computing UBTI.
When an organization is operated primarily
to conduct fundamental research (as distinguished from applied research) and the results
are freely available to the general public, all income from research performed for any person
is excluded in computing UBTI.
The term research, for this purpose, doesn’t
include activities of a type normally conducted
as an incident to commercial or industrial operations, such as testing or inspecting materials
or products, or designing or constructing equipment, buildings, etc. In addition, the term fundamental research doesn’t include research conducted for the primary purpose of commercial
or industrial application.

Gains and losses from disposition of property. Also excluded from UBTI are gains or
losses from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property other than:
1. Stock in trade or other property of a kind
that would properly be includible in inventory if on hand at the close of the tax year,
2. Property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or
business, or
3. Cutting of timber that an organization has
elected to consider as a sale or exchange
of the timber.
It should be noted that the last exception relates only to cut timber. The sale, exchange, or
other disposition of standing timber is excluded
from the computation of unrelated business income, unless it constitutes property held for
sale to customers in the ordinary course of business.
Lapse or termination of options. Any
gain from the lapse or termination of options to
buy or sell securities is excluded from UBTI.
The exclusion applies only if the option is written in connection with the exempt organization's investment activities. Therefore, this exclusion isn’t available if the organization is
engaged in the trade or business of writing options or the options are held by the organization
as inventory or for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business.
Exception. This exclusion doesn’t apply to
unrelated debt-financed income, discussed
later under Income From Debt-Financed Property.
Gain or loss on disposition of certain
brownfield property. Gain or loss from the
qualifying sale, exchange, or other disposition
of a qualifying brownfield property (as defined in
section 512(b)(19)(C)), which was acquired by
the organization after December 31, 2005 and
before January 1, 2011, is excluded from UBTI
and is excepted from the debt-financed rules.
See sections 512(b)(19) and 514(b)(1)(E).
Income from services provided under federal license. There is a further exclusion from
UBTI of income from a trade or business conducted by a religious order or by an educational
organization maintained by the order.
This exclusion applies only if the following
requirements are met.
1. The trade or business must have been operated by the order or by the institution before May 27, 1959.
2. The trade or business must provide services under a license issued by a federal
regulatory agency.
3. More than 90% of the net income from the
business for the tax year must be devoted
to religious, charitable, or educational purposes that constitute the basis for the religious order's exemption.
4. The rates or other charges for these services must be fully competitive with the
rates or other charges of similar taxable
businesses. Rates or other charges for
these services will be considered as fully

competitive if they are neither materially
higher nor materially lower than the rates
charged by similar businesses operating
in the same general area.
Exception. This exclusion doesn’t apply to
unrelated debt-financed income (discussed under Income From Debt-Financed Property,
later).
Member income of mutual or cooperative
electric companies. Income of a mutual or
cooperative electric company described in section 501(c)(12) that is treated as member income under subparagraph (H) of that section is
excluded from UBTI.

Dues of Agricultural
Organizations and Business
Leagues
Dues received from associate members by organizations exempt under section 501(c)(5) or
section 501(c)(6) may be treated as gross income from an unrelated trade or business if the
associate member category exists for the principal purpose of producing unrelated business
income. For example, if an organization creates
an associate member category solely to allow
associate members to purchase insurance
through the organization, the associate member
dues may be unrelated business income.
Exception. Associate member dues received by an agricultural or horticultural organization aren’t treated as gross income from an
unrelated trade or business, regardless of their
purpose, provided the associate member dues
do not exceed an annual limit, which is indexed
for inflation. The limit on dues paid by an associate member is $171 in 2020.
If the required annual dues are more than
the limit, the entire amount is treated as income
from an unrelated business unless the associate member category was formed or availed
of for the principal purpose of furthering the organization's exempt purposes.

Deductions
To qualify as allowable deductions in computing
UBTI, the expenses, depreciation, and similar
items must generally be allowable income tax
deductions that are directly connected with carrying on the unrelated trade or business to
which they relate. They can’t be directly connected with excluded income.
For an exception to the “directly connected”
requirement, see Charitable contributions deduction, under Modifications, later.

Directly Connected
To be directly connected with the conduct of an
unrelated trade or business, deductions must
have a proximate and primary relationship to
carrying on that trade or business. For an exception, see Expenses attributable to exploitation of exempt activities, later.
Expenses attributable solely to unrelated
business. Expenses, depreciation, and simiChapter 4

lar items attributable solely to the conduct of an
unrelated business are proximately and primarily related to that business and qualify for deduction to the extent that they are otherwise allowable income tax deductions.
For example, salaries of personnel employed full-time to conduct the unrelated business and depreciation of a building used entirely in the conduct of that business are
deductible to the extent otherwise allowable.
Expenses attributable to dual use of facilities or personnel. When facilities or personnel are used both to conduct exempt functions
and to conduct an unrelated trade or business,
expenses, depreciation, and similar items attributable to the facilities or personnel must be allocated between the two uses on a reasonable
basis. The part of an item allocated to the unrelated trade or business is proximately and primarily related to that business and is allowable
as a deduction in computing UBTI if the expense is otherwise an allowable income tax deduction.
An exempt organization with more than one
unrelated trade or business likewise allocates
deductions between separate unrelated trades
or businesses using the reasonable basis
standard.
Example 1. A school recognized as a
tax-exempt organization contracts with an individual to conduct a summer tennis camp. The
school provides the individual with tennis
courts, housing, and dining facilities, and personnel to maintain and operate them. The contracted individual hires the instructors, recruits
campers, and provides supervision of the tennis
camp. The income the school receives from the
individual under the contract from this activity
for the use of its facilities and personnel is from
a dual use of the facilities and personnel, not
from conducting an educational activity. The
school, in computing its UBTI, may deduct an
allocable part of the expenses attributable to
the facilities and personnel it makes available
under the contract.
Example 2. An exempt organization with
gross income from an unrelated trade or business pays its president $90,000 a year. The
president devotes approximately 10% of his
time to the unrelated business. To figure the organization's UBTI, a deduction of $9,000
($90,000 × 10%) is allowed for the salary paid
to its president.
Expenses attributable to exploitation of exempt activities. Generally, expenses, depreciation, and similar items attributable to the conduct of an exempt activity aren’t deductible in
computing UBTI from an unrelated trade or
business that exploits the exempt activity. (See
Exploitation of exempt functions under Not substantially related in chapter 3.) This is because
they don’t have a proximate and primary relationship to the unrelated trade or business, and
therefore, they don’t qualify as directly connected with that business.
Exception. Expenses, depreciation, and
similar items may be treated as directly connected with the conduct of the unrelated business if
all the following conditions are met.

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

Page 11

1. The unrelated business exploits the exempt activity.
2. The unrelated business is a type normally
conducted for profit by taxable organizations.
3. The exempt activity is a type normally conducted by taxable organizations in carrying on that type of business.
The amount treated as directly connected is the
smaller of:
1. The excess of these expenses, depreciation, and similar items over the income
from, or attributable to, the exempt activity;
or
2. The gross unrelated business income reduced by all other expenses, depreciation,
and other items that are actually directly
connected.
The application of these rules to an advertising activity that exploits an exempt publishing
activity is explained next.

Exploitation of Exempt
Activity—Advertising Sales
The sale of advertising in a periodical of an exempt organization that contains editorial material related to the accomplishment of the organization's exempt purpose is an unrelated
business that exploits an exempt activity, the
circulation, and readership of the periodical.
Therefore, in addition to direct advertising
costs, exempt activity costs (expenses, depreciation, and similar expenses attributable to the
production and distribution of the editorial or
readership content) can be treated as directly
connected with the conduct of the advertising
activity. (See Expenses attributable to exploitation of exempt activities under Directly Connected, earlier.)
Figuring UBTI. The UBTI of an advertising
activity is the amount shown in the following
chart.
IF gross advertising
income is . . .

Allocable membership receipts. This is
the part of membership receipts (dues, fees, or
other charges associated with membership)
equal to the amount that would have been
charged and paid for the periodical if:
1. The periodical was published by a taxable
organization,
2. The periodical was published for profit,
and
3. The member was an unrelated party dealing with the taxable organization at arm's
length.
The amount used to allocate membership
receipts is the amount shown in the following
chart.
For this purpose, the total periodical costs
are the sum of the direct advertising costs and
the readership costs, explained under Periodical Costs, later. The cost of other exempt activities means the total expenses incurred by the
organization in connection with its other exempt
activities, not offset by any income earned by
the organization from those activities.

IF . . .

the excess advertising income,
reduced (but not below zero)
by the excess, if any, of
readership costs over
circulation income.

equal to or less than
direct advertising
costs

zero.
Circulation income and
readership costs aren’t taken
into account.

The terms used in the chart are explained in
the following discussions.

Periodical Income
Gross advertising income. This is all the income from the unrelated advertising activities of
an exempt organization periodical.
Circulation income. This is all the income
from the production, distribution, or circulation
of an exempt organization's periodical (other
Chapter 4

THEN the amount used to
allocate membership
receipts is . . .

20% or more of the
total circulation
consists of sales to
nonmembers

the subscription price charged
nonmembers.

the above condition
doesn’t apply, and
20% or more of the
members pay
reduced dues
because they do not
receive the periodical

the reduction in dues for a
member not receiving the
periodical.

neither of the above
conditions applies

the membership receipts
multiplied by this fraction:

THEN UBTI is . . .

more than direct
advertising costs

Page 12

than gross advertising income). It includes all
amounts from the sale or distribution of the
readership content of the periodical, such as income from subscriptions. It also includes allocable membership receipts if the right to receive
the periodical is associated with a membership
or similar status in the organization.

Total periodical costs
Total periodical costs
Plus
Cost of other exempt activities

Example 1. U is an exempt scientific organization with 10,000 members who pay annual dues of $15. One of U's activities is publishing a monthly periodical distributed to all of
its members. U also distributes 5,000 additional
copies of its periodical to nonmembers, who
subscribe for $10 a year. Since the nonmember
circulation of U's periodical represents one-third
(more than 20%) of its total circulation, the subscription price charged to nonmembers is used
to determine the part of U's membership receipts allocable to the periodical. Thus, U's allocable membership receipts are $100,000 ($10
times 10,000 members), and U's total circulation income for the periodical is $150,000
($100,000 from members plus $50,000 from
sales to nonmembers).

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

Example 2. Assume the same facts except that U sells only 500 copies of its periodical to nonmembers, at a price of $10 a year. Assume also that U's members may elect not to
receive the periodical, in which case their dues
are reduced from $15 a year to $6 a year, and
that only 3,000 members elect to receive the
periodical and pay the full dues of $15 a year.
U's stated subscription price of $9 to members
consistently results in an excess of total income
(including gross advertising income) attributable to the periodical over total costs of the periodical. Since the 500 copies of the periodical
distributed to nonmembers represent only 14%
of the 3,500 copies distributed, the $10 subscription price charged to nonmembers isn’t
used to determine the part of membership receipts allocable to the periodical. Instead, since
70% of the members elect not to receive the periodical and pay $9 less per year in dues, the $9
price is used to determine the subscription price
charged to members. Thus, the allocable membership receipts will be $9 per member, or
$27,000 ($9 times 3,000 copies). U's total circulation income is $32,000 ($27,000 plus the
$5,000 from nonmember subscriptions).

Periodical Costs
Direct advertising costs. These are expenses, depreciation, and similar items of deduction directly connected with selling and publishing advertising in the periodical.
Examples of allowable deductions under
this classification include agency commissions
and other direct selling costs, such as transportation and travel expenses, office salaries, promotion and research expenses, and office overhead directly connected with the sale of
advertising lineage in the periodical. Also included are other deductions commonly classified
as advertising costs under standard account
classifications, such as artwork and copy preparation, telephone, telegraph, postage, and
similar costs directly connected with advertising.
In addition, direct advertising costs include
the part of mechanical and distribution costs attributable to advertising lineage. For this purpose, the general account classifications of
items includible in mechanical and distribution
costs ordinarily employed in business-paper
and consumer-publication accounting provide a
guide for the computation. Accordingly, the mechanical and distribution costs include the part
of the costs and other expenses of composition,
press work, binding, mailing (including paper
and wrappers used for mailing), and bulk postage attributable to the advertising lineage of the
publication.
In the absence of specific and detailed records, the part of mechanical and distribution
costs attributable to the periodical's advertising
lineage can be based on the ratio of advertising
lineage to total lineage in the periodical, if this
allocation is reasonable.
Readership costs. These are all expenses,
depreciation, and similar items directly connected with the production and distribution of the
readership content of the periodical.

Costs partly attributable to other activities.
Deductions properly attributable to exempt activities other than publishing the periodical may
not be allocated to the periodical. When expenses are attributable both to the periodical and to
the organization's other activities, an allocation
must be made on a reasonable basis. The
method of allocation will vary with the nature of
the item, but once adopted, it should be used
consistently. Allocations based on dollar receipts from various exempt activities generally
aren’t reasonable since receipts usually don’t
accurately reflect the costs associated with specific activities that an exempt organization conducts.

Consolidated Periodicals
If an exempt organization publishes more than
one periodical to produce income, it may treat
all of them (but not less than all) as one in determining UBTI from selling advertising. The gross
income from all the periodicals, and the deductions directly connected with them is figured on
a consolidated basis. Consolidated treatment,
once adopted, must be followed consistently
and is binding. This treatment can be changed
only with the consent of the IRS.
An exempt organization's periodical is published to produce income if:
1. The periodical generates gross advertising
income to the organization equal to at
least 25% of its readership costs, and
2. Publishing the periodical is an activity engaged in for profit.
Whether the publication of a periodical is an
activity engaged in for profit can be determined
only by all the facts and circumstances in each
case. The facts and circumstances must show
that the organization carries on the activity for
economic profit, although there may not be a
profit in a particular year. For example, if an organization begins publishing a new periodical
whose total costs exceed total income in the
start-up years because of lack of advertising
sales, that doesn’t mean that the organization
didn’t have as its objective an economic profit.
The organization may establish that it had this
objective by showing it can reasonably expect
advertising sales to increase, so that total income will exceed costs within a reasonable
time.
Example. Y, an exempt trade association,
publishes three periodicals that it distributes to
its members: a weekly newsletter, a monthly
magazine, and a quarterly journal. Both the
monthly magazine and the quarterly journal
contain advertising that accounts for gross advertising income equal to more than 25% of
their respective readership costs. Similarly, the
total income attributable to each periodical has
exceeded the total deductions attributable to
each periodical for substantially all the years
they have been published. The newsletter carries no advertising and its annual subscription
price isn’t intended to cover the cost of publication. The newsletter is a service that Y distributes to all of its members in an effort to keep
them informed of changes occurring in the business world. It is not engaged in for profit.

Under these circumstances, Y may consolidate the income and deductions from the
monthly and quarterly journals in computing its
UBTI. It may not consolidate the income and
deductions from the newsletter with the income
and deductions of its other periodicals, since
the newsletter isn’t published for the production
of income.

Modifications
Net operating loss (NOL). An NOL arises
when allowable deductions exceed gross unrelated trade or business income. Subject to modifications described in section 172, the NOL is
allowed as a deduction against unrelated business taxable income for a tax year to which the
NOL can be carried, as described below. The
NOL for any tax year, the carryovers of NOLs,
and the NOL deduction are determined without
taking into account any amount of income or
deduction that is specifically excluded in computing UBTI. For example, a loss from an unrelated trade or business isn't diminished because the organization received dividend
income.
In line with this concept, an NOL can arise
only in a tax year for which the organization is
subject to tax on unrelated business income.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (P.L. 115-97)
and the CARES Act (P.L. 116-136) substantially
modified the NOL provisions under section 172.
Further, section 512(a)(6) (added by the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act) changed the way exempt
organizations report and figure the tax on income from unrelated trade or business activity.
NOLs arising before 2018. Prior to the addition of section 512(b)(6), an exempt organization would compute its NOL (if any) for each tax
year on an aggregate basis, regardless of the
number of separate unrelated trades or business conducted by the organization. NOLs arising before 2018 (pre-2018 NOLs) can be carried forward for up to 20 years. Pre-2018 NOLs
can be applied (subject to modifications) as a
deduction to reduce unrelated business taxable
income without regard to the unrelated trade or
business activity that generated the income.
Even though an NOL can arise only in a tax
year for which the organization is subject to tax
on unrelated business income, the pre-2018
NOLs expire after 20 consecutive tax years. For
example, if an organization was subject to the
tax for 2014 and had an NOL for that year, the
last tax year to which any part of that NOL may
be carried over is 2034, regardless of whether
the organization was subject to the unrelated
business income tax in any of the intervening
years.
NOLs arising in tax years after 2017. Section 512(a)(6) requires an organization with
more than one unrelated trade or business to
calculate UBTI in any tax year beginning after
2017, including for purposes of determining any
NOL (post-2017 NOL) or applying any
post-2017 NOL deduction, separately with respect to each such trade or business.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (P.L.115-97,
section 13302) amended section 172(b) to

Chapter 4

eliminate both the expiration of NOL carryforwards and the ability to carryback NOLs to earlier tax years. Certain farming and insurance
company losses are exceptions and can be carried back as described in section 172(b). See
Publication 225, Farmer's Tax Guide; Publication 536, Net Operating Losses; or Publication
542, Corporations; for additional information.
However, the CARES Act added section 172(b)
(1)(D), which provides for carryback of NOLs
arising in 2018, 2019, and 2020 to each of the 5
years preceding the tax year in which the NOL
arose. An organization that wishes to carry
these NOLs forward must waive the carryback.
See the Instructions for Form 990-T for more information.
In addition to largely eliminating NOL carrybacks (except for the CARES Act modification),
the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, as modified by the
CARES Act, provides that the allowable NOL
deduction for tax years beginning in 2021 cannot exceed 80% of taxable income.
An organization that had an NOL in a tax
year beginning in 2018 or 2019 can file amended returns Form 990-T to carryback the NOL.
See Pub. 536 for more information.
For more details on the NOL deduction, including property eligible for an extended carryback period, see section 172 and Pub. 536.
Charitable contributions deduction. An exempt organization is allowed to deduct its charitable contributions in computing its UBTI even if
the contributions are not directly connected with
any unrelated business.
To be deductible, the contribution must be
paid to another qualified organization. For example, an exempt university that operates an
unrelated business may deduct a contribution
made to another university for educational
work, but may not claim a deduction for contributions of amounts spent for carrying out its
own educational program.
For purposes of the deduction, a distribution
by a trust made under the trust instrument to a
beneficiary, which itself is a qualified organization, is treated the same as a contribution.
Deduction limits. An exempt organization
that is subject to the unrelated business income
tax at corporate rates is allowed a deduction for
charitable contributions up to 10% of its UBTI
computed without regard to the deduction for
contributions. See the Instructions for Form
990-T for more information.
An exempt trust that is subject to the unrelated business income tax at trust rates is generally allowed a deduction for charitable contributions in the same amounts as allowed for
individuals. However, the limit on the deduction
is determined in relation to the trust's UBTI
computed without regard to the deduction,
rather than in relation to adjusted gross income.
Contributions in excess of the limits just described may be carried over to the next 5 tax
years. A contribution carryover isn’t allowed,
however, to the extent that it increases an NOL
carryover.
Specific deduction. In computing UBTI, a
specific deduction of $1,000 is allowed. However, the specific deduction isn’t allowed in
computing an NOL or the NOL deduction.

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

Page 13

Generally, the deduction is limited to $1,000
regardless of the number of unrelated businesses in which the organization is engaged.
Exception. An exception is provided in the
case of a diocese, province of a religious order,
or a convention or association of churches that
may claim a specific deduction for each parish,
individual church, district, or other local unit. In
these cases, the specific deduction for each local unit is limited to the lower of:
• $1,000, or
• Gross income derived from an unrelated
trade or business regularly conducted by
the local unit.
This exception applies only to parishes, districts, or other local units that aren’t separate legal entities, but are components of a larger entity (diocese, province, convention, or
association) filing Form 990-T. The parent organization must file a return reporting the unrelated business gross income and related deductions of all units that aren’t separate legal
entities. The local units can’t file separate returns. However, each local unit that is separately incorporated must file its own return and
can’t include, or be included with, any other entity. See Title-holding corporations in chapter 1
for a discussion of the only situation in which
more than one legal entity may be included on
the same Form 990-T.
Example. X is an association of churches
and is divided into local units A, B, C, and D.
Last year, A, B, C, and D derived gross income
of, respectively, $1,200, $800, $1,500, and
$700 from unrelated businesses that they regularly conduct. X may claim a specific deduction
of $1,000 with respect to A, $800 with respect
to B, $1,000 with respect to C, and $700 with
respect to D.

Partnership Income
or Loss
An organization may have unrelated business
income or loss as a member of an entity classified as a partnership for federal tax purposes
(see section 7701 and corresponding regulations), rather than through direct business dealings with the public. If so, it must treat its share
of the partnership income or loss as if it had
conducted the business activity in its own capacity as a corporation or trust. No distinction is
made between limited and general partners or
managing or non-managing members of a limited liability company. The organization is required to notify the partnership of its tax-exempt
status. See Regulations section 1.512(a)-6 for
information and transition rules under section
512(a)(6) for aggregating income from partnerships and debt-financed income from partnerships.
Thus, if an organization is a member of a
partnership regularly engaged in a trade or
business that is an unrelated trade or business
with respect to the organization, the organization must include in its UBTI its share of the
partnership's gross income from the unrelated
trade or business (whether or not distributed),
and the deductions attributable to it. The
Page 14

Chapter 4

partnership income and deductions to be included in the organization's UBTI are figured the
same way as any income and deductions from
an unrelated trade or business conducted directly by the organization. The partnership is required to provide the organization this information on Schedule K-1.
Example. An exempt educational organization is a partner in a partnership that operates
a factory. The partnership also holds stock in a
corporation. The exempt organization must include its share of the gross income from operating the factory in its UBTI but may exclude its
share of any dividends the partnership received
from the corporation.
Different tax years. If the exempt organization and the partnership of which it is a member
have different tax years, the partnership items
that enter into the computation of the organization's UBTI must be based on the income and
deductions of the partnership for the partnership's tax year that ends within the organization's tax year.

S Corporation Income or
Loss
An organization that owns S corporation stock
must take into account its share of the S corporation's income, deductions, and losses in figuring UBTI, regardless of the actual source or nature of the income, deductions, and losses. For
example, the organization's share of the S corporation's interest and dividend income will be
taxable, even though interest and dividends are
normally excluded from UBTI. The organization
must also take into account its gain or loss on
the sale or other disposition of the S corporation
stock in figuring UBTI.

Special Rules for
Foreign Organizations
The UBTI of a foreign organization exempt from
tax under section 501(a) consists of the organization's:
1. Unrelated business taxable income derived from sources within the United
States but not effectively connected with
the conduct of a trade or business within
the United States; and
2. Unrelated business taxable income effectively connected with the conduct of a
trade or business within the United States,
whether or not this income is derived from
sources within the United States.
To determine whether income realized by a
foreign organization is derived from sources
within the United States or is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business
within the United States, see sections 861
through 865 and the related regulations.

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

Special Rules for Social
Clubs, VEBAs, and SUBs
The following discussion applies to:
• Social clubs described in section 501(c)
(7),
• Voluntary employees' beneficiary associations (VEBAs) described in section
501(c)(9), and
• Supplemental unemployment compensation benefit trusts (SUBs) described
in section 501(c)(17).
In general, these organizations are subject to
the tax on income from unrelated trade or business activities and must apply the rules under
section 512(a)(6). See Regulations section
1.512(a)-6 for more information. However, they
must also must figure UBTI under special rules.
Unlike other exempt organizations, they can’t
exclude their investment income (dividends, interest, rents, etc.). (See Exclusions under Income, earlier.) Therefore, they are generally
subject to unrelated business income tax on
this income.
The UBTI of these organizations includes all
gross income, less deductions directly connected with the production of that income, except
that gross income for this purpose doesn’t include exempt function income. The deduction
for dividends received by a corporation isn’t allowed in computing UBTI because it isn’t an expense incurred in the production of income.
Losses from nonexempt activities. Losses
from nonexempt activities of these organizations can’t be used to offset investment income.
Modifications. The UBTI is modified by any
NOL or charitable contributions deduction and
by the specific deduction (described earlier under Deductions).
Exempt function income. This is gross income from dues, fees, charges, or similar items
paid by members for goods, facilities, or services to the members or their dependents or
guests, to further the organization's exempt purposes. Exempt function income also includes
income set aside for qualified purposes.
Income that is set aside. This is income
set aside to be used for religious, charitable,
scientific, literary, or educational purposes or for
the prevention of cruelty to children or animals.
In addition, for a VEBA or SUB it is income set
aside to provide for the payment of life, sick, accident, or other benefits.
However, any amounts set aside by a VEBA
or SUB that exceed the organization's qualified
asset account limit (determined under section
419A) are unrelated business income. Special
rules apply to the treatment of existing reserves
for post-retirement medical or life insurance
benefits. These rules are explained in section
512(a)(3)(E)(ii).
Income derived from an unrelated trade or
business may not be set aside and therefore
can’t be exempt function income. In addition,
any income set aside and later spent for other
purposes must be included in UBTI.

Set-aside income is generally excluded from
gross income only if it is set aside in the tax
year in which it is otherwise includible in gross
income. However, income set aside on or before the date for filing Form 990-T, including extensions of time, may, at the election of the organization, be treated as having been set aside
in the tax year for which the return was filed.
The income set aside must have been includible in gross income for that earlier year.
Nonrecognition of gain. If the organization
sells property used directly in performing an exempt function and purchases other property
used directly in performing an exempt function,
any gain on the sale is recognized only to the
extent that the sales price of the old property
exceeds the cost of the new property. The purchase of the new property must be made within
1 year before the date of sale of the old property
or within 3 years after the date of sale.
This rule also applies to gain from an involuntary conversion of the property resulting from
its destruction in whole or in part, theft, seizure,
requisition, or condemnation.

Special Rules for
Veterans' Organizations
Unrelated business taxable income of a veterans' organization that is exempt under section
501(c)(19) doesn’t include the net income from
insurance business that is properly set aside.
The organization may set aside income from
payments received for life, sick, accident, or
health insurance for the organization's members or their dependents for the payment of insurance benefits or reasonable costs of insurance administration, or for use exclusively for
religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or the prevention of cruelty
to children or animals. For details, see section
512(a)(4) and the regulations under that section.

Income From Controlled
Organizations
The exclusions for interest, annuities, royalties,
and rents, explained earlier in this chapter under Income, may not apply to a payment of
these items received by a controlling organization from its controlled organization. The payment is included in the controlling organization's
UBTI to the extent it reduced the net unrelated
income (or increased the net unrelated loss) of
the controlled organization. All deductions of
the controlling organization directly connected
with the amount included in its UBTI are allowed.
Excess qualifying specified payments. Excess qualifying specified payments received or
accrued from a controlled entity are included in
a controlling exempt organization's UBTI only to
the extent of the amount that exceeds that
would have been paid or accrued if the payments had been determined under section 482.
Qualifying specified payments means any payments of interest, annuities, royalties, or rents

received or accrued from the controlled organization pursuant to a binding written contract in
effect on August 17, 2006, or to a contract
which is a renewal, under substantially similar
terms of a binding written contract in effect on
August 17, 2006, and the payments are received or accrued after December 31, 2014.
If a controlled participant isn’t required to file
a U.S. income tax return, the participant must
ensure that the copy or copies of the Regulations section 1.482-7 Cost Sharing Arrangement Statement and any updates are attached
to Schedule M of any Form 5471, Information
Return of U.S. Persons With Respect To Certain Foreign Corporations, any Form 5472, Information Return of a 25% Foreign-Owned U.S.
Corporation or a Foreign Corporation Engaged
in a U.S. Trade or Business, or any Form 8865,
Return of U.S. Persons With Respect to Certain
Foreign Partnerships, filed for that participant.

a section 501(c)(3) organization or a governmental unit, and such use isn’t consistent with
the requirements for qualified 501(c)(3) bonds
under section 145, the section 501(c)(3) organization is considered to have received unrelated
business income in the amount of the greater of
the actual rental income or the fair rental value
of the property for the period it is used. No deduction is allowed for interest on the private activity bond. See sections 150(b)(3) and (c) for
more information.

Addition to tax for valuation misstatements. Under section 512(b)(13)(E)(ii), the tax
imposed on a controlling organization will be increased by 20% of the excess qualifying specified payments that are determined with or without any amendments or supplements to a return
of tax, whichever is larger. See section 512(b)
(13)(E)(ii) for more information.

A taxable 80%-owned subsidiary corporation of
one or more tax-exempt entities is generally
subject to tax on a distribution in liquidation of
its assets to its exempt parent (or parents). The
assets are treated as if sold at fair market value.

Net unrelated income. This is:

• For an exempt organization, its UBTI, or
• For a nonexempt organization, the part of
its taxable income that would be UBTI if it
were exempt and had the same exempt
purposes as the controlling organization.

Net unrelated loss. This is:

• For an exempt organization, its NOL, or
• For a nonexempt organization, the part of

its NOL that would be its NOL if it were exempt and had the same exempt purposes
as the controlling organization.

Control. An organization is controlled if:

• For a corporation, the controlling organiza-

tion owns (by vote or value) more than
50% of the stock,
• For a partnership, the controlling organization owns more than 50% of the profits or
capital interests, or
• For any other organization, the controlling
organization owns more than 50% of the
beneficial interest.

For this purpose, constructive ownership of
stock (determined under section 318) or other
interests is taken into account.
As a result, an exempt parent organization is
treated as controlling any subsidiary in which it
holds more than 50% of the voting power or
value, whether directly (as in the case of a
first-tier subsidiary) or indirectly (as in the case
of a second-tier subsidiary).

Disposition of Property
Received From Taxable
Subsidiary and Used in
Unrelated Business

Tax-exempt entities include organizations
described in sections 501(a), 529, and 115,
charitable remainder trusts, U.S. and foreign
governments, Indian tribal governments, international organizations, and similar non-taxable
organizations.
A taxable corporation that transfers substantially all of its assets to a tax-exempt entity in a
transaction that otherwise qualifies for nonrecognition treatment must recognize gain on the
transaction as if it sold the assets at fair market
value. However, such a transfer isn’t taxable if it
qualifies as a like-kind exchange under section
1031 or an involuntary conversion under section 1033. In such a case, the built-in appreciation is preserved in the replacement property
received in the transaction.
A corporation that changes status from taxable to tax-exempt is treated generally as if it
transferred all of its assets to a tax-exempt entity immediately before the change in status
(thus subjecting it to the tax on a deemed sale
for fair market value). This rule doesn’t apply
where the taxable corporation becomes exempt
within 3 years of formation, or had previously
been exempt and within several years (generally a period of 3 years) regains exemption, unless the principal purpose of the transactions is
to avoid the tax on the change in status.

Income From Property
Financed With Qualified
501(c)(3) Bonds

In the transactions described above, the taxable event is deferred for property that the
tax-exempt entity immediately uses in an unrelated business. If the parent later disposes of
the property, then any gain (not in excess of the
amount not recognized) is included in the parent's UBTI. If there is partial use of the assets
in unrelated business, then there is partial recognition of gain or loss. Property is treated as
disposed if the tax-exempt entity no longer uses
it in an unrelated business.

If any part of a 501(c)(3) organization's property
financed with qualified 501(c)(3) bonds is used
in a trade or business of any person other than

Losses on the transfer of assets to a tax-exempt entity are disallowed if part of a plan with a
principal purpose of recognizing losses.

Chapter 4

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

Page 15

Income From
Debt-Financed Property
Investment income that would otherwise be excluded from an exempt organization's UBTI
(see Exclusions under Income, earlier) must be
included to the extent it is derived from debt-financed property. The amount of income included is proportionate to the debt on the property.

Debt-Financed Property
In general, the term “debt-financed property”
means any property held to produce income (including gain from its disposition) for which there
is an acquisition indebtedness at any time during the tax year (or during the 12-month period
before the date of the property's disposal, if it
was disposed of during the tax year). However,
the tax on unrelated debt-financed income under section 514 does not apply to property used
for an exempt purpose. See Exceptions to
Debt-Financed Property, later. Sources of unrelated debt-financed income include rental real
estate, tangible personal property, and corporate stock.

Acquisition Indebtedness
For any debt-financed property, acquisition indebtedness is the unpaid amount of debt incurred by an organization:
1. When acquiring or improving the property,
2. Before acquiring or improving the property
if the debt would not have been incurred
except for the acquisition or improvement,
and
3. After acquiring or improving the property if:
a. The debt would not have been incurred except for the acquisition or improvement, and
b. Incurring the debt was reasonably
foreseeable when the property was
acquired or improved.
The facts and circumstances of each situation determine whether incurring a debt was
reasonably foreseeable. That an organization
may not have foreseen the need to incur a debt
before acquiring or improving the property
doesn’t necessarily mean that incurring the debt
later wasn’t reasonably foreseeable.
Example 1. Y, an exempt scientific organization, mortgages its laboratory to replace
working capital used in remodeling an office
building that Y rents to an insurance company
for nonexempt purposes. The debt is acquisition indebtedness since the debt, though incurred after the improvement of the office building,
would not have been incurred without the improvement, and the debt was reasonably foreseeable when, to make the improvement, Y reduced its working capital below the amount
necessary to continue current operations.
Example 2. X, an exempt organization,
forms a partnership with A and B. The
Page 16

Chapter 4

partnership agreement provides that all three
partners will share equally in the profits of the
partnership, each will invest $3 million, and X
will be a limited partner. X invests $1 million of
its own funds in the partnership and $2 million
of borrowed funds.
The partnership buys as its sole asset an office building that it leases to the public for nonexempt purposes. The office building costs the
partnership $24 million, of which $15 million is
borrowed from Y bank. The loan is secured by a
mortgage on the entire office building. By
agreement with Y bank, X isn’t personally liable
for payment of the mortgage.
X has acquisition indebtedness of $7 million.
This amount is the $2 million debt X incurred in
acquiring the partnership interest, plus the $5
million that is X's allocable part of the partnership's debt incurred to buy the office building
(one-third of $15 million).
Example 3. A labor union advanced funds,
from existing resources and without any borrowing, to its tax-exempt subsidiary title-holding
company. The subsidiary used the funds to pay
a debt owed to a third party that was previously
incurred in acquiring two income-producing office buildings. Neither the union nor the subsidiary has incurred any further debt in acquiring or
improving the property. The union has no outstanding debt on the property. The subsidiary's
debt to the union is represented by a demand
note on which the subsidiary makes payments
whenever it has the available cash. The books
of the union and the subsidiary list the outstanding debt as inter-organizational indebtedness.
Although the subsidiary's books show a debt
to the union, it isn’t the type subject to the
debt-financed property rules. In this situation,
the very nature of the title-holding company and
the parent-subsidiary relationship shows this
debt to be merely a matter of accounting between the two organizations. Accordingly, the
debt isn’t acquisition indebtedness.
Change in use of property. If an organization
converts property that isn’t debt-financed property to a use that results in its treatment as
debt-financed property, the outstanding principal debt on the property is thereafter treated as
acquisition indebtedness.
Example. Four years ago a university borrowed funds to acquire an apartment building
as housing for married students. Last year, the
university rented the apartment building to the
public for nonexempt purposes. The outstanding principal debt becomes acquisition indebtedness as of the time the building was first rented to the public.
Continued debt. If an organization sells property and, without paying off debt that would be
acquisition indebtedness if the property were
debt-financed property, buys property that is
otherwise debt-financed property, the unpaid
debt is acquisition indebtedness for the new
property. This is true even if the original property wasn’t debt-financed property.
Example. To house its administration offices, an exempt organization bought a building
using $600,000 of its own funds and $400,000
of borrowed funds secured by a pledge of its

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

securities. The office building wasn’t debt-financed property. The organization later sold the
building for $1 million without repaying the
$400,000 loan. It used the sale proceeds to buy
an apartment building it rents to the general
public. The unpaid debt of $400,000 is acquisition indebtedness with respect to the apartment
building.
Property acquired subject to mortgage or
lien. If property (other than certain gifts, bequests, and devises) is acquired subject to a
mortgage, the outstanding principal debt secured by that mortgage is treated as acquisition
indebtedness even if the organization didn’t assume or agree to pay the debt.
Example. An exempt organization paid
$50,000 for real property valued at $150,000
and subject to a $100,000 mortgage. The
$100,000 of outstanding principal debt is acquisition indebtedness, as though the organization had borrowed $100,000 to buy the property.
Liens similar to a mortgage. In determining acquisition indebtedness, a lien similar to a
mortgage is treated as a mortgage. A lien is
similar to a mortgage if title to property is encumbered by the lien for a creditor's benefit.
However, when state law provides that a lien for
taxes or assessments attaches to property before the taxes or assessments become due and
payable, the lien isn’t treated as a mortgage until after the taxes or assessments have become
due and payable and the organization has had
an opportunity to eliminate the lien by paying
the amount it secured in accordance with state
law. Liens similar to mortgages include (but
aren’t limited to):
1. Deeds of trust,
2. Conditional sales contracts,
3. Chattel mortgages,
4. Security interests under the Uniform Commercial Code,
5. Pledges,
6. Agreements to hold title in escrow, and
7. Liens for taxes or assessments (other than
those discussed earlier in this paragraph).
Exception for property acquired by gift,
bequest, or devise. If property subject to a
mortgage is acquired by gift, bequest, or devise, the outstanding principal debt secured by
the mortgage isn’t treated as acquisition indebtedness during the 10-year period following the
date the organization receives the property.
However, this applies to a gift of property only if:
1. The mortgage was placed on the property
more than 5 years before the date the organization received it, and
2. The donor held the property for more than
5 years before the date the organization
received it.
This exception doesn't apply if an organization assumes and agrees to pay all or part of
the debt secured by the mortgage or makes any
payment for the equity in the property owned by
the donor or decedent (other than a payment
under an annuity obligation excluded from the

definition of acquisition indebtedness, discussed under Debt That Isn’t Acquisition Indebtedness, later).
Whether an organization has assumed and
agreed to pay all or part of a debt in order to acquire the property is determined by the facts
and circumstances of each situation.
Modifying existing debt. Extending, renewing, or refinancing an existing debt is considered a continuation of that debt to the extent its
outstanding principal doesn’t increase. When
the principal of the modified debt is more than
the outstanding principal of the old debt, the excess is treated as a separate debt.
Extension or renewal. In general, any
modification or substitution of the terms of a
debt by an organization is considered an extension or renewal of the original debt, rather than
the start of a new one, to the extent that the outstanding principal of the debt doesn’t increase.
The following are examples of acts resulting
in the extension or renewal of a debt:
1. Substituting liens to secure the debt,
2. Substituting obligees whether or not with
the organization's consent,
3. Renewing, extending, or accelerating the
payment terms of the debt, and
4. Adding, deleting, or substituting sureties
or other primary or secondary obligors.
Debt increase. If the outstanding principal
of a modified debt is more than that of the unmodified debt, and only part of the refinanced
debt is acquisition indebtedness, the payments
on the refinanced debt must be allocated between the old debt and the excess.
Example. An organization has an outstanding principal debt of $500,000 that is treated as acquisition indebtedness. The organization borrows another $100,000, which isn’t
acquisition indebtedness, from the same
lender, resulting in a $600,000 note for the total
obligation. A payment of $60,000 on the total
obligation would reduce the acquisition indebtedness
by
$50,000
($60,000
x
$500,000/$600,000) and the excess debt by
$10,000.

Debt That Isn’t Acquisition
Indebtedness
Certain debt and obligations aren’t acquisition
indebtedness. These include the following.
• Debts incurred in performing an exempt
purpose.
• Annuity obligations.
• Securities loans.
• Real property debts of qualified organizations.
• Certain Federal financing.
Debt incurred in performing exempt purpose. A debt incurred in performing an exempt
purpose isn’t acquisition indebtedness. For example, acquisition indebtedness doesn’t include the debt an exempt credit union incurs in
accepting deposits from its members or the
debt an exempt organization incurs in accepting
payments from its members to provide them
with insurance, retirement, or other benefits.

Annuity obligation. The organization's obligation to pay an annuity isn’t acquisition indebtedness if the annuity meets all the following requirements.
1. It must be the sole consideration (other
than a mortgage on property acquired by
gift, bequest, or devise that meets the exception discussed under Property acquired subject to mortgage or lien, earlier
in this chapter) issued in exchange for the
property received.

1. A qualified retirement plan under section
401(a),
2. An educational organization described in
section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) and certain of its
affiliated support organizations,
3. A title-holding company described in section 501(c)(25), or

2. Its present value, at the time of exchange,
must be less than 90% of the value of the
prior owner's equity in the property received.

4. A retirement income account described in
section 403(b)(9) in acquiring or improving
real property in tax years beginning on or
after August 17, 2006.

3. It must be payable over the lives of either
one or two individuals living when issued.

This exception from acquisition indebtedness doesn’t apply in the following six situations.

4. It must be payable under a contract that:
a. Doesn’t guarantee a minimum nor
specify a maximum number of payments, and
b. Doesn’t provide for any adjustment of
the amount of the annuity payments
based on the income received from
the transferred property or any other
property.
Example. X, an exempt organization, receives property valued at $100,000 from donor
A, a male age 60. In return X promises to pay A
$6,000 a year for the rest of A's life, with neither
a minimum nor maximum number of payments
specified. The amounts paid under the annuity
aren’t dependent on the income derived from
the property transferred to X. The present value
of this annuity is $81,156, determined from IRS
valuation tables. Since the value of the annuity
is less than 90 percent of A's $100,000 equity in
the property transferred and the annuity meets
all the other requirements just discussed, the
obligation to make annuity payments isn’t acquisition indebtedness.
Securities loans. Acquisition indebtedness
doesn’t include an obligation of the exempt organization to return collateral security provided
by the borrower of the exempt organization's
securities under a securities loan agreement
(discussed under Exclusions, earlier in this
chapter). This transaction isn’t treated as the
borrowing by the exempt organization of the
collateral furnished by the borrower (usually a
broker) of the securities.
However, if the exempt organization incurred debt to buy the loaned securities, any income from the securities (including income
from lending the securities) would be debt-financed income. For this purpose, any payments because of the securities are considered
to be from the securities loaned and not from
collateral security or the investment of collateral
security from the loans. Any deductions that are
directly connected with collateral security for
the loan, or with the investment of collateral security, are considered deductions that are directly connected with the securities loaned.
Short sales. Acquisition indebtedness
doesn’t include the “borrowing” of stock from a
broker to sell the stock short. Although a short
sale creates an obligation, it doesn’t create
debt.
Chapter 4

Real property debts of qualified organizations. In general, acquisition indebtedness
doesn't include debt incurred by a qualified organization in acquiring or improving any real
property. A qualified organization is:

1. The acquisition price isn’t a fixed amount
determined as of the date of the acquisition or the completion of the improvement.
However, the terms of a sales contract
may provide for price adjustments due to
customary closing adjustments such as
prorating property taxes. The contract also
may provide for a price adjustment if it is
for a fixed amount dependent upon subsequent resolution of limited, external contingencies such as zoning approvals, title
clearances, and the removal of easements. These conditions in the contract
will not cause the price to be treated as an
undetermined amount. However, see Note
1 at the end of this list.
2. Any debt or other amount payable for the
debt, or the time for making any payment,
depends, in whole or in part, upon any revenue, income, or profits derived from the
real property. However, see Note 1 at the
end of this list.
3. The real property is leased back to the
seller of the property or to a person related
to the seller as described in section 267(b)
or section 707(b). However, see Note 2 at
the end of this list.
4. The real property is acquired by a qualified
retirement plan from, or after its acquisition
is leased by a qualified retirement plan to,
a related person. However, see Note 2 at
the end of this list. For this purpose, a related person is:
a. An employer who has employees covered by the plan,
b. An owner with at least a 50% interest
in an employer described in (a),
c. A member of the family of any individual described in (a) or (b),
d. A corporation, partnership, trust, or
estate in which a person described in
(a), (b), or (c) has at least a 50% interest, or
e. An officer, director, 10% or more
shareholder, or highly compensated
employee of a person described in
(a), (b), or (d).

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

Page 17

5. The seller, a person related to the seller
(under section 267(b) or section 707(b)),
or a person related to a qualified retirement plan (as described in (4)) provides financing for the transaction on other than
commercially reasonable terms.
6. The real property is held by a partnership
in which an exempt organization is a partner (along with taxable entities), and the
principal purpose of any allocation to an
exempt organization is to avoid tax. This
generally applies to property placed in
service after 1986. For more information,
see section 514(c)(9)(B)(vi) and section
514(c)(9)(E).
Note 1. Qualifying sales by financial institutions of foreclosure property or certain conservatorship or receivership property aren’t included in (1) or (2) and, therefore, don’t give rise to
acquisition indebtedness. For more information,
see section 514(c)(9)(H).
Note 2. For purposes of (3) and (4), small
leases are disregarded. A small lease is one
that covers no more than 25% of the leasable
floor space in the property and has commercially reasonable terms.
Certain federal financing. Acquisition indebtedness doesn’t include an obligation, to the extent it is insured by the Federal Housing Administration, to finance the purchase, rehabilitation,
or construction of housing for low or moderate
income people.
In addition, acquisition indebtedness
doesn’t include indebtedness incurred by a
small business investment company licensed
under the Small Business Investment Act of
1958 after October 22, 2004, if such indebtedness is evidenced by a debenture issued by
such company and held or guaranteed by the
Small Business Administration. However, this
provision doesn’t apply to any small business
investment company during any period that any
organization which is exempt from tax (other
than a governmental unit) owns more than 25%
of the capital or profits interest in such company, or organizations which are exempt from
tax (including governmental agencies other
than any agency or instrumentality of the United
States) own, in the aggregate, 50% or more of
the capital or profits interest in such company.

Exceptions to Debt-Financed
Property
Certain property is excepted from treatment as
debt-financed property.
Property related to exempt purposes. If
substantially all (85% or more) of the use of any
property is substantially related to an organization's exempt purposes, the property isn’t treated as debt-financed property. Related use
doesn’t include a use related solely to the organization's need for income, or its use of the
profits. The extent to which property is used for
a particular purpose is determined on the basis
of all the facts. They may include:

Page 18

Chapter 4

1. A comparison of the time the property is
used for exempt purposes with the total
time the property is used,
2. A comparison of the part of the property
that is used for exempt purposes with the
part used for all purposes, or
3. Both of these comparisons.
If less than 85% of the use of any property is
devoted to an organization's exempt purposes,
only that part of the property used to further the
organization's exempt purposes isn’t treated as
debt-financed property.
Property used in an unrelated trade or business. To the extent that the gross income from
any property is treated as income from the conduct of an unrelated trade or business, the
property isn’t treated as debt-financed property.
However, any gain on the disposition of the
property not included in income from an unrelated trade or business is includible as gross income derived from, or on account of, debt-financed property.
The rules for debt-financed property don’t
apply to rents from personal property, certain
passive income from controlled organizations,
and other amounts that are required by other
rules to be included in computing UBTI.
Property used in research activities. Property isn’t treated as debt-financed property
when it produces gross income derived from research activities otherwise excluded from the
unrelated trade or business tax. See Income
from research under Exclusions, earlier in this
chapter.
Property used in certain excluded activities. Debt-financed property doesn’t include
property used in a trade or business that is excluded from the definition of “unrelated trade or
business” because:
1. It has a volunteer workforce,
2. It is conducted for the convenience of its
members, or
3. It consists of selling donated merchandise.
See Excluded Trade or Business Activities in
chapter 3.
Related exempt uses. Property owned by an
exempt organization and used by a related exempt organization, or by an exempt organization related to that related exempt organization,
isn’t treated as debt-financed property when the
property is used by either organization to further
its exempt purpose. Furthermore, property isn’t
treated as debt-financed property when a related exempt organization uses it for research activities or certain excluded activities, as described above.
Related organizations. An exempt organization is related to another exempt organization only if:
1. One organization is an exempt holding
company and the other receives profits
derived by the exempt holding company,
2. One organization controls the other as discussed under Income From Controlled Organizations earlier in this chapter,

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

3. More than 50% of the members of one organization are members of the other, or
4. Each organization is a local organization
directly affiliated with a common state, national, or international organization that
also is exempt.
Medical clinics. Real property isn’t debt-financed property if it is leased to a medical clinic
and the lease is entered into primarily for purposes related to the lessor's exercise or performance of its exempt purpose.
Example. An exempt hospital leases all of
its clinic space to an unincorporated association
of physicians and surgeons. They, under the
lease, agree to provide all of the hospital's outpatient medical and surgical services and to
train all of the hospital's residents and interns.
In this case the rents received aren’t unrelated
debt-financed income.
Life income contract. If an individual transfers property to a trust or a fund with the income
payable to that individual or other individuals for
a period not to exceed the life of the individual
or individuals, and with the remainder payable
to an exempt charitable organization, the property isn’t treated as debt-financed property. This
exception applies only where the payments to
the individual aren’t the proceeds of a sale or
exchange of the property transferred.
Neighborhood land rule. If an organization
acquires real property with the intention of using
the land for exempt purposes within 10 years, it
will not be treated as debt-financed property if it
is in the neighborhood of other property that the
organization uses for exempt purposes. This
rule applies only if the intent to demolish any existing structures and use the land for exempt
purposes within 10 years isn’t abandoned.
Property is considered in the neighborhood
of property that an organization owns and uses
for its exempt purposes if it is contiguous with
the exempt purpose property or would be contiguous except for an intervening road, street,
railroad, stream, or similar property. If it isn’t
contiguous with the exempt purpose property, it
still may be in the same neighborhood if it is
within 1 mile of the exempt purpose property
and if the facts and circumstances make it unreasonable to acquire the contiguous property.
Some issues to consider in determining
whether acquiring contiguous property is unreasonable include the availability of land and the
intended future use of the land.
Example. A university tries to buy land
contiguous to its present campus, but can’t do
so because the owners either refuse to sell or
ask unreasonable prices. The nearest land of
sufficient size and utility is a block away from
the campus. The university buys this land. Under these circumstances, the contiguity requirement is unreasonable and not applicable. The
land bought would be considered neighborhood
land.
Exceptions. For all organizations other
than churches and conventions or associations
of churches, discussed later under Churches,
the neighborhood land rule doesn’t apply to
property after the 10 years following its

acquisition. Further, the rule applies after the
first 5 years only if the organization satisfies the
IRS that use of the land for exempt purposes is
reasonably certain before the 10-year period
expires. The organization need not show binding contracts to satisfy this requirement; but it
must have a definite plan detailing a specific improvement and a completion date, and it must
show some affirmative action toward the fulfillment of the plan. This information should be forwarded to the IRS for a ruling at least 90 days
before the end of the 5th year after acquisition
of the land. Send information to:
Internal Revenue Service
Attn: CC:PA:LPD:DRU
P.O. Box 120, Ben Franklin Station
Washington, DC 20044
If a private delivery service is used, the address
is:
Internal Revenue Service
Attn: CC:PA:LPD:DRU, Room 5336
1111 Constitution Ave. NW
Washington, DC 20224
The IRS may grant a reasonable extension of
time for requesting the ruling if the organization
can show good cause. For more information,
contact the IRS.

!

For any updates to these addresses go
to IRS.gov/Pub598.

CAUTION

Actual use. If the neighborhood land rule
doesn’t apply because the acquired land isn’t in
the neighborhood of other land used for an organization's exempt purposes, or because the
organization fails to establish after the first 5
years of the 10-year period that the property will
be used for exempt purposes, but the land is
used eventually by the organization for its exempt purposes within the 10-year period, the
property isn’t treated as debt-financed property
for any period before the conversion.
Limits. The neighborhood land rule or actual use rule applies to any structure on the land
when acquired, or to the land occupied by the
structure, only so long as the intended future
use of the land in furtherance of the organization's exempt purpose requires that the structure be demolished or removed in order to use
the land in this manner. Thus, during the first 5
years after acquisition (and for later years if
there is a favorable ruling), improved property
isn’t debt financed so long as the organization
doesn’t abandon its intent to demolish the existing structures and use the land in furtherance of
its exempt purpose. If an actual demolition of
these structures occurs, the use made of the
land need not be the one originally intended as
long as its use furthers the organization's exempt purpose.
In addition to this limit, the neighborhood
land rule and the actual use rule don’t apply to
structures erected on land after its acquisition.
They don’t apply to property subject to a business lease (as defined in section 1.514(f)-1 of
the regulations) whether an organization acquired the property subject to the lease, or
whether it executed the lease after acquisition.
A business lease is any lease, with certain

exceptions, of real property for a term of more
than 5 years by an exempt organization if at the
close of the lessor's tax year there is a business
lease (acquisition) indebtedness on that property.
Refund of taxes. When the neighborhood
land rule doesn’t initially apply, but the land is
eventually used for exempt purposes, a refund
or credit of any overpaid taxes will be allowed
for a prior tax year as a result of the satisfaction
of the actual use rule. A claim must be filed
within 1 year after the close of the tax year in
which the actual use rule is satisfied. Interest
rates on any overpayment are governed by the
regulations.
Example. In January 2009, Y, a calendar
year exempt organization, acquired real property contiguous to other property that Y uses in
furtherance of its exempt purpose. Assume that
without the neighborhood land rule, the property
would be debt-financed property. Y didn’t satisfy the IRS by January 2014 that the existing
structure would be demolished and the land
would be used in furtherance of its exempt purpose. From 2014 until the property is converted
to an exempt use, the income from the property
is subject to the tax on unrelated business income. During July 2018, Y will demolish the existing structure on the land and begin using the
land in furtherance of its exempt purpose. At
that time, Y can file claims for refund for the
open years 2015 through 2017.
Further, Y also can file a claim for refund for
2014, even though a claim for that tax year may
be barred by the statute of limitations, provided
the claim is filed before the close of 2019.
Churches. The neighborhood land rule as
described here also applies to churches, or a
convention or association of churches, but with
two differences:
1. The period during which the organization
must demonstrate the intent to use acquired property for exempt purposes is increased from 10 to 15 years, and
2. Acquired property doesn’t have to be in
the neighborhood of other property used
by the organization for exempt purposes.
Thus, if a church or association or convention of churches acquires real property for the
primary purpose of using the land in the exercise or performance of its exempt purpose,
within 15 years after the time of acquisition, the
property isn’t treated as debt-financed property
as long as the organization doesn't abandon its
intent to use the land in this manner within the
15-year period.
This exception for a church or association or
convention of churches doesn’t apply to any
property after the 15-year period expires. Further, this rule will apply after the first 5 years of
the 15-year period only if the church or association or convention of churches establishes to
the satisfaction of the IRS that use of the acquired land in furtherance of the organization's
exempt purpose is reasonably certain before
the 15-year period expires.
If a church or association or convention of
churches can’t establish after the first 5 years of
the 15-year period that use of acquired land for
its exempt purpose is reasonably certain within
Chapter 4

the 15-year period, but the land is in fact converted to an exempt use within the 15-year period, the land isn’t treated as debt-financed
property for any period before the conversion.
The same rule for demolition or removal of
structures, as discussed earlier in this chapter
under Limits, applies to a church or an association or a convention of churches.

Computation of
Debt-Financed Income
For each debt-financed property, the unrelated
debt-financed income is a percentage (not over
100%) of the total gross income derived during
a tax year from the property. This percentage is
the same percentage as the average acquisition indebtedness with respect to the property
for the tax year of the property's average adjusted basis for the year (the debt/basis percentage). Thus, the formula for deriving unrelated
debt-financed income is:
average acquisition
indebtedness

average adjusted basis

x

gross income
from
debt-financed
property

Example. X, an exempt trade association,
owns an office building that is debt-financed
property. The building produced $10,000 of
gross rental income last year. The average adjusted basis of the building during that year was
$100,000, and the average acquisition indebtedness with respect to the building was
$50,000. Accordingly, the debt/basis percentage was 50% (the ratio of $50,000 to
$100,000). Therefore, the unrelated debt-financed income with respect to the building was
$5,000 (50% of $10,000).
Gain or loss from sale or other disposition
of property. If an organization sells or otherwise disposes of debt-financed property, it must
include, in computing UBTI, a percentage (not
over 100%) of any gain or loss. The percentage
is that of the highest acquisition indebtedness
with respect to the property during the
12-month period preceding the date of disposition, in relation to the property's average adjusted basis.
The tax on this percentage of gain or loss is
determined according to the usual rules for capital gains and losses.
Debt-financed property exchanged for
subsidiary's stock. A transfer of debt-financed property by a tax-exempt organization
to its wholly owned taxable subsidiary, in exchange for additional stock in the subsidiary,
isn’t considered a gain subject to the tax on unrelated business income.
Example. A tax-exempt hospital wants to
build a new hospital complex to replace its
present old and obsolete facility. The most desirable location for the new hospital complex is
a site occupied by an apartment complex. Several years ago the hospital bought the land and
apartment complex, taking title subject to a first
mortgage already on the premises.
For valid business reasons, the hospital proposed to exchange the land and apartment

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

Page 19

complex, subject to the mortgage on the property, for additional stock in its wholly owned
subsidiary. The exchange satisfied all the requirements of section 351(a).
The transfer of appreciated debt-financed
property from the tax-exempt hospital to its
wholly owned subsidiary in exchange for stock
didn’t result in a gain subject to the tax on unrelated business income.
Gain or loss on disposition of certain
brownfield property. Gain or loss from the
qualifying sale, exchange, or other disposition
of a qualifying brownfield property (as defined in
section 512(b)(19)(C)), which was acquired by
the organization after December 31, 2004, is
excluded from UBTI and is excepted from the
debt-financed rules for such property. See sections 512(b)(19) and 514(b)(1)(E).
Average acquisition indebtedness. This is
the average amount of outstanding principal
debt during the part of the tax year that the organization holds the property.
Average acquisition indebtedness is computed by determining how much principal debt is
outstanding on the first day in each calendar
month during the tax year that the organization
holds the property, adding these amounts, and
dividing the sum by the number of months during the year that the organization held the property. Part of a month is treated as a full month in
computing average acquisition indebtedness.
Indeterminate price. If an organization acquires or improves property for an indeterminate price (that is, neither the price nor the debt
is certain), the unadjusted basis and the initial
acquisition indebtedness are determined as follows, unless the organization obtains the IRS's
consent to use another method:
• The unadjusted basis is the fair market
value of the property or improvement on
the date of acquisition or completion of the
improvement.
• The initial acquisition indebtedness is the
fair market value of the property or improvement on the date of acquisition or
completion of the improvement, less any
down payment or other initial payment applied to the principal debt.
Average adjusted basis. The average adjusted basis of debt-financed property is the average of the adjusted basis of the property as of
the first day and as of the last day that the organization holds the property during the tax
year.
Determining the average adjusted basis of
the debt-financed property isn’t affected if the
organization was exempt from tax for prior tax
years. The basis of the property must be adjusted properly for the entire period after the property was acquired. As an example, adjustment
must be made for depreciation during all prior
tax years whether or not the organization was
tax-exempt. If only part of the depreciation allowance may be taken into account in computing the percentage of deductions allowable for
each debt-financed property, that doesn’t affect
the amount of the depreciation adjustment to
use in determining average adjusted basis.
Basis for debt-financed property acquired in corporate liquidation. If an exempt
Page 20

Chapter 4

organization acquires debt-financed property in
a complete or partial liquidation of a corporation
in exchange for its stock, the organization's basis in the property is the same as it would be in
the hands of the transferor corporation. This basis is increased by the gain recognized to the
transferor corporation upon the distribution and
by the amount of any gain that, because of the
distribution, is includible in the organization's
gross income as unrelated debt-financed income.
Computation of debt/basis percentage. The
following example shows how to compute the
debt/basis percentage by first determining the
average acquisition indebtedness and average
adjusted basis.
Example. On July 7, an exempt organization buys an office building for $510,000 using
$300,000 of borrowed funds. The organization
files its return on a calendar year basis. During
the year the only adjustment to basis is $20,000
for depreciation. Starting July 28, the organization pays $20,000 each month on the mortgage
principal plus interest. The debt/basis percentage for the year is calculated as follows:

Month

Debt on first day
of each month
property is held

July . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
August . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
September . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
October . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
November . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
December . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$ 300,000
280,000
260,000
240,000
220,000
200,000

Total

$1,500,000

Average acquisition
indebtedness:
$1,500,000 ÷ 6 months

$ 250,000
Basis

As of July 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
As of December 31 . . . . . . . . . .

$ 510,000
490,000

Total

$1,000,000

Average adjusted basis:
$1,000,000 ÷ 2

$ 500,000

Debt/basis percentage
$250,000 ÷ $500,000

= 50%

Deductions for
Debt-Financed Property
The deductions allowed for each debt-financed
property are determined by applying the debt/
basis percentage to the sum of allowable deductions.
The allowable deductions are those directly
connected with the debt-financed property or
with the income from it (including the dividends-received deduction), except that:
1. The allowable deductions are subject to
the modifications for computation of the
UBTI (discussed earlier in this chapter);
and
2. The depreciation deduction, if allowable,
is computed only by use of the
straight-line method.

Unrelated Business Taxable Income

To be directly connected with debt-financed
property or with the income from it, a deductible
item must have proximate and primary relationship to the property or income. Expenses, depreciation, and similar items attributable solely
to the property qualify for deduction, to the extent they meet the requirements of an allowable
deduction.
For example, if the straight-line depreciation
allowance for an office building is $10,000 a
year, an organization can deduct depreciation
of $10,000 if the entire building is debt-financed
property. However, if only half of the building is
debt-financed property, the depreciation allowed as a deduction is $5,000.
Capital losses. If a sale or exchange of
debt-financed property results in a capital loss,
the loss taken into account in the tax year in
which the loss arises is computed as provided
earlier. See Gain or loss from sale or other disposition of property under Computation of
Debt-Financed Income, earlier.
If any part of the allowable capital loss isn’t
taken into account in the current tax year, it may
be carried back or carried over to another tax
year as provided in section 1212 , without application of the debt/basis percentage for that
year.
Example. X, an exempt educational organization, owned debt-financed securities that
were capital assets. Last year, X sold the securities at a loss of $20,000. The debt/basis percentage for computing the loss from the sale of
the securities is 40%. Thus, X sustained a capital loss of $8,000 (40% of $20,000) on the sale
of the securities. Last year and the preceding 3
tax years, X had no other capital transactions.
Under these circumstances, the $8,000 of capital loss may be carried over to succeeding
years (subject to limitations under section 1212)
without further application of the debt/basis percentage.
NOL. If, after applying the debt/basis percentage to the income from debt-financed property
and the deductions directly connected with this
income, the deductions exceed the income, an
organization has an NOL for the tax year. This
amount may be carried over to other tax years
in the same manner as any other NOL of an organization with UBTI. (For a discussion of the
NOL deduction, see Modifications under Deductions, earlier in this chapter.) However, the
debt/basis percentage is not applied in those
other tax years to determine the deductions that
may be taken in those years.
Example. Last year, Y, an exempt organization, received $20,000 of rent from a debt-financed building that it owns. Y had no other
UBTI for the year. The deductions directly connected with this building were property taxes of
$5,000, interest of $5,000 on the acquisition indebtedness, and salary of $15,000 to the building manager. The debt/basis percentage with
respect to the building was 50%. Under these
circumstances, Y must take into account, in
computing its UBTI, $10,000 (50% of $20,000)
of income and $12,500 (50% of $25,000) of the
deductions directly connected with that income.

Thus, Y sustained an NOL of $2,500
($10,000 of income less $12,500 of deductions), which may be carried back or carried
over to other tax years (as provided in section
172) without further application of the debt/
basis percentage.

Allocation Rules
When only part of the property is debt-financed
property, proper allocation of the basis, debt, income, and deductions with respect to the property must be made to determine how much income or gain derived from the property to treat
as unrelated debt-financed income.
Example. X, an exempt college, owns a
four-story office building that it bought with borrowed funds (assumed to be acquisition indebtedness). During the year, the lower two stories
of the building were used to house computers
that X uses for administrative purposes. The
two upper stories were rented to the public and
used for nonexempt purposes.
The gross income X derived from the building was $6,000, all of which was attributable to
the rents paid by tenants. The expenses were
$2,000 and were equally allocable to each use
of the building. The average adjusted basis of
the building for the year was $100,000 and the
average acquisition indebtedness for the year
was $60,000.
Since the two lower stories were used for
exempt purposes, only the upper half of the
building is debt-financed property. Consequently, only the rental income and the deductions directly connected with this income are
taken into account in computing UBTI. The part

taken into account is determined by multiplying
the $6,000 of rental income and $1,000 of deductions directly connected with the rental income by the debt/basis percentage.
The debt/basis percentage is the ratio of the
allocable part of the average acquisition indebtedness to the allocable part of the property's
average adjusted basis: that is, in this case, the
ratio of $30,000 (one-half of $60,000) to
$50,000 (one-half of $100,000). Thus, the debt/
basis percentage for the year is 60% (the ratio
of $30,000 to $50,000).
Under these circumstances, X must include
net rental income of $3,000 in its UBTI for the
year, computed as follows:
Rental income treated as gross income
from an unrelated trade or business (60% of
$6,000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$3,600

Less the allowable portion of
deductions directly connected with that income
(60% of $1,000) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

600

Net rental income included by X in
computing its UBTI from debt-financed
property. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$3,000

5.
How To Get Tax
Help

Missing and Exploited Children. Photographs of
missing children selected by the Center may
appear in instructions on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if
you recognize a child.
Phone Help. If you have questions and/or
need help completing this form, please call
877-829-5500. This toll-free telephone service
is available Monday through Friday.
Internet. You can access the IRS website 24
hours a day, 7 days a week, at IRS.gov to:
• Download forms and publications.
• Order IRS products online.
• Research your tax questions online.
• Search publications online by topic or keyword.
• Use the online Internal Revenue Code
(IRC), Regulations, or other official guidance.
• View Internal Revenue Bulletins (IRBs)
published in the last few years.
• Sign up to receive local and national tax
news by email. To subscribe, visit IRS.gov/
Charities.
Ordering Forms and Publications. Visit
IRS.gov/FormsPubs to download forms and
publications. Otherwise, you can go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to order current and prior-year
forms and instructions. Your order should arrive
within 10 business days.

Photographs of Missing Children. The IRS is
a proud partner with the National Center for

Chapter 5

How To Get Tax Help

Page 21

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A

Acquisition indebtedness 20
Annuity obligations 17
By gift or bequest of mortgaged
property 16
Change in property use 16
Continued debt 16
Debt modifying existing 17
Federal financing 18
For performing exempt
purpose 17
Obligation to return collateral 17
Property subject to mortgage or
lien 16
Real property 17
Advertising income 12
Agricultural organization
dues 11

B

Exploitation of exempt
functions 4

F

Form 990-T 3

I

Income from research 10

L

Limits 19

N

Net operating loss deduction 13
Nonrecognition of gain 15

P

Business league dues 11

Publications 21

C

R

Churches 19
Contributions deduction 13
Convention or trade show
activity 8

D

Debt-financed property 16
Acquired in liquidation 20
Dues, agricultural organizations
and business leagues 11

E

Exchange or rental of member
lists 8
Excluded trade or business
activities 7
Exclusions 9
Sponsorship 8
Exempt function income 14
Exploitation of exempt activity:
Advertising income 12

Page 22

Rents 10
Return 3
Royalties 10

S

Specific deduction 13

T

Tax 2
Colleges and universities 2
Deposits 3
Estimated 3
Organizations affected 2
Payment 3
Rates 3
Return 3
Title-holding corporations 3
U.S. instrumentalities 2
Tax Help 21
Title-holding corporations 3

Exploitation of exempt
functions 4
Gambling activities other than
Unrelated business:
bingo 7
Hospital laboratory 6
Halfway house 5
Unrelated business income 9
Health club program 5
Advertising income 12
Hearing aid sales 6
Certain trusts 14
Hospital facilities 5
Controlled organizations 15
Hospital services 8
Debt-financed property 16
Insurance programs 5
Deductions 11
Magazine publishing 5
Employees beneficiary
Member lists rentals, etc. 8
associations 14
Membership list sales 5
Exclusions 9
Miniature golf course 5
Foreign organizations 14
Museum eating facilities 5
Income from gambling
Museum greeting card sales 5
activities 7
Pet boarding and grooming
Income from lending
services 6
securities 10
Pole rentals 8
Modifications 13
Public entertainment activity 8
Partnership income or loss 14
Publishing legal notices 6
Products of exempt functions 4
Regularly conducted 4
S corporation income 14
Sales commissions 6
S corporation income or loss 14
Sales of advertising space 6
Social clubs 14
School facilities 6
Veterans organizations 15
School handicraft shop 6
Unrelated debt-financed
Selling donated merchandise 9
income 18
Selling endorsements 7
Average acquisition
Sponsoring entertainment
indebtedness 20
events 7
Average adjusted basis 20
Substantially related 4
Computation 19
Trade or business defined 4
Debt/basis percentage 20
Travel tour programs 7
Deductions 20
Volunteer workforce 9
Gains from dispositions 19
Yearbook advertising 7
Indeterminate property price 20
Youth residence 7
Unrelated trade or business 4
Unstated trade or business:
Artists facilities 4
Bingo games 7
Broadcasting rights 4
Business league's parking and
bus services 5
V
Convenience of members 8
Volunteer fire company 9
Convention or trade show 8
Directory of members 6
Distribution of low-cost
W
articles 8
When to file 3
Dual use facilities, etc. 4
Employees association sales 8
Exclusions 7

U

Publication 598 (March 2021)

