SUBJ:

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

ORDER
1700.6D

National Policy

Effective date:
02/27/2024

FAA Branding Policy, Use of the FAA Logo, FAA Signature and DOT Seal

1. Purpose of This Order. This order establishes the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
Brand Identity Program and sets policies for a program to maintain a consistent and uniform
look and style in all publications (print and digital) and other materials to visually convey to
all audiences we are all part of one unified organization. It also describes the uses of the FAA
logo (formerly FAA insignia), FAA signature (Department of Transportation seal and words
“Federal Aviation Administration”), and Department of Transportation seal, and provides
overall responsibility for managing the program and issuing program guidelines to the Office
of Communications.
2. Whom This Order Affects. FAA employees and contractors.
3. Where Can I Find This Order. You can find this order on the FAA website, Tools &
Resources, Orders & Notices.
4. What This Order Cancels. Cancels FAA Order 1700.6C, FAA Branding Policy, Use of the
FAA Logo, FAA Signature and DOT Seal, dated September 11, 2006.
5. Definition of the FAA Brand Identity. The cornerstone of the FAA brand identity is the
FAA logomark used with the agency name. The logomark may be used alone; however, the
brand identity refers to using the logomark and the words “Federal Aviation Administration”
or FAA displayed together in specified formats, fonts, sizes, and colors.
6. Responsibility for the FAA Brand Identity Program.
a. The Office of Communications is responsible for managing the FAA Brand Identity
Program and will publish program guidance and requirements on the FAA employee website.
b. The FAA employee website maintained by the FAA Office of Communications is the
source of policy, guidelines, standards, and other requirements of the brand identity
program including the correct use of the FAA logo and signature. The website also
provides samples and instructions on the correct way to brand FAA materials.
c. All FAA entities and anyone producing materials for the FAA are responsible for
following FAA Brand Identity Program policies in this order, guidance, and other
requirements issued by the Office of Communications.
d. Lines of Businesses, Staff Offices, Regional Offices, Service Units, and offices/teams
may not create a visual identity (logo) that includes the title of a Line of Business, Staff
Distribution: Electronic

Initiated By: AOC-200

02/27/2024

1700.6D

Office, Regional Office, Service Unit or office/team, unless review and prior approval is
obtained from the Office of Communications (See Section 9 of this order).
e. All FAA entities and anyone producing materials for the FAA are responsible for using
only visual identities (campaign logos) that have been approved by the Office of
Communications.
f. Graphic identities or campaign logos that are not directly created by the Office
of Communication must meet the graphic standards established by the Office
of Communications.
g. The FAA Office of Communications may ask for and conduct a formal brand audit
and/or review of any FAA Line of Business’ or Staff Office’s internal or external
communications to assure compliance with the FAA brand identity program guidance.
7. FAA Logo.
a. Description: The FAA Logomark has within a circular gold border, a blue background
bearing the white letters near its outer rim the words “Federal Aviation” at the top and
“Administration” at the bottom. Centered within the border is a light green globe with
gold latitude and longitude markings. Superimposed on the globe is a gold four-pointed
compass rose that has a stylized gold wing on its horizontal axis. The FAA Logomark is
also a federally registered trademark/service mark of the Federal Aviation Administration.
The FAA Logo (Logomark and Text) comprises the image set forth in the FAA
Logomark with the text “Federal Aviation Administration” adjacent to the right of the
Logomark with “Federal Aviation” on the first line and “Administration” below, left
justified, set in Helvetica Neue Bold.
There are several approved variations of the colors of the logo. The FAA Logo is
illustrated below. You will find samples of other approved versions of the logo on the
employee website at Tools & Resources, Branding & Writing.

b. Who may use the logo. Only FAA organizations may use the FAA logo, unless approved
by the Assistant Administrator for Communications. (See section 11 of this order).
c. How to use the FAA logo.
(1) You must use the FAA logo on business cards, certificates, memoranda addressed to
the FAA Administrator or any office within the FAA, presentations, and brochures
and report covers intended for distribution within the FAA and when appropriate for
public distribution.
(2) Except as provided in (1), you may use the FAA Logomark by itself.
2

02/27/2024

1700.6D

(3) You may use the FAA Logomark with the words “Federal Aviation Administration.”
The words “Federal Aviation Administration” must be placed adjacent to the right of
the Logomark with “Federal Aviation” on the first line and “Administration” below,
left justified, set in Helvetica Neue Bold.
(4) You may use the abbreviation “FAA” with the FAA Logomark along with the name
of the line of business or staff office. The “FAA” must be placed adjacent to the
right of the Logomark with “FAA” on the first line and the name of the line of
business or staff office below. The “FAA” must be set with Helvetica Neue Black
Extended and the name of the line of business or staff office must be set with
Helvetica Neue Bold (see examples immediately below).

3

*Updated FAA APL Logo on 06/25/2025

02/27/2024

1700.6D

(5) You may use the FAA logo for decorating certificates, plaques, invitations, notepads, decals,
internal publications, videos, social media postings, brochures advertising FAA products and
services, posters, and other display materials informing the public of the role of the FAA, and
the like.
(6) You may use the FAA logo on pins, cuff links, desk sets, coffee mugs, tee shirts, and similar
articles. You may not buy those items with agency funds, except as authorized by the Office
of Human Resources guidance HRPM PM-9.2, Recognizing Employees.
(7) Below is a listing of some, but not all, unapproved modifications and alterations to the FAA logo.

d. Prohibited uses. The FAA Logo or FAA Logomark may only be used as authorized by as
detailed above or in other circumstances when authorized by the Assistant Administrator for
Communications. The use of the FAA Logo or FAA Logomark may not be used in any way
that implies endorsement by the FAA, DOT, or the United States government of any product,
service, or enterprise by the government, or which appears to sanction the activities of a third
party. See 5 C.F.R. §§ 2635.702(b), 2635.702(c), and 2635.704.
8. Guidance and examples. All FAA employees and contractors must follow this policy and
the guidance, standards, examples, and other branding requirements on the employee
website. The Office of Communications will clarify and interpret the branding policy and
guidance as needed.

4

02/27/2024

1700.6D

9. Using other logos. You may not create or use any other office or program logos without the
written approval of the Office of Communications.
10. FAA Signature.
a. Department of Transportation (DOT) policy and guidelines state that the FAA
signature must comprise the use DOT triskelion figure (“DOT Official Seal”) with the
words “U.S. Department of Transportation” and “Federal Aviation Administration”
below it. You have two style choices.

Style 1. Vertical Signature

Style 2. Horizontal Signature

b. Mandatory uses: You must use the FAA Signature:
(1) On the letterhead of official letters authored by FAA personnel.
(2) On memoranda addressed to the DOT, other DOT administrations, and other Federal
agencies.
(3) To identify agency installations, activities, and equipment.
11. Department of Transportation Seal.
a. Mandatory use. The DOT Official Seal must be used to legally authenticate public-use
official FAA forms, copies of FAA documents, certificates of custody of FAA documents
when such documents are to be submitted in evidence in judicial or administrative
proceedings, DOT and FAA credentials, or when a person specifically asks for
certification.
b. The Chief Counsel, for documents or materials in custody of the Office of the Chief
Counsel, published in the Federal Register, or required in connection with legal matters
involving the FAA. This authority may be further delegated by the Chief Counsel.
c. The Office of Chief Counsel is responsible for advising on additional policy and
guidance on authenticating documents.
12. FAA requests for exceptions. You must get approval from the Assistant Administrator for
Communications for any exceptions to this policy and the branding standards and guidelines.
To request an exception, submit the request to the Office of Communications. The authority
to approve exceptions may be redelegated. Submit your request to the Branding Team.

5

02/27/2024

1700.6D

13. Requests for non-FAA entities to use the FAA logo or FAA Logomark.
a. Requests by FAA organizations on behalf of third parties. The head of the line of
business or staff office must submit a request for non-FAA organizations to use the FAA
logo to the Assistant Administrator for Communications. The request must be in writing
and describe exactly how the organization will use the FAA logo and how its use will
benefit the FAA.
b. Requests by Non-FAA organizations. Non-FAA organizations must send requests to
use the FAA logo in writing to the Assistant Administrator for Communications. The
request must describe how the organization plans to use the logo.
14. Administrative Matters.
a. Authority to change, revise, or cancel this order. The Assistant Administrator for
Communications may change, revise, or cancel this order.
b. Guidance on FAA brand identity guidelines and standards. The FAA employee website
provides additional guidance and examples of the proper use of the FAA brand and logo. All
FAA entities must follow the guidance. The website provides examples of the FAA logo and
examples and templates for memoranda, and PowerPoint™ presentations and other
materials. You can find the guidance on the employee website at Tools & Resources,
Branding & Writing.
c. Using existing supplies that don’t meet the branding standards. Use your existing
supplies until they run out or until October 01, 2024, whichever is sooner. You must
submit requests for exceptions to this policy to the Assistant Administrator for
Communications. For new materials, follow this order and guidelines published on the
employee website.
d. Related Department of Transportation and FAA guidance.
(1) DOT Order 1000.14A, Official Seal and Signature of the Department of
Transportation, dated December 2, 1981.
(2) DOT Order 1360.6, Department of Transportation Graphics Standards, dated March
18, 1981.
(3) HRPM – PM 9.2, Recognizing Employees, dated April 6, 2021.
(4) Order 1200.8D, FAA Public Information Activities and Programs, dated March 24, 2022.

Michael G. Whitaker
Administrator
6

