        Instrument Flying Handbook (FAA-H-8083-15B) Addendum B:
                               False Courses
                              November 2019


The following will replace the content found on page 9-40 under “ILS Errors”:

2. False courses. In addition to the desired course, glideslope (GS) facilities inherently produce
   additional courses at higher vertical angles. These false courses occur at angles between
   approximately 6° and 12°. Some false courses (false null) resemble a normal 3° GS, but are
   at a steeper angle or at the wrong location and may result in a high descent rate if followed,
   while other false courses (signal reversal) occur when the signal is reversed (i.e., signal
   transitions from a “fly-down” command to a “fly-up” command) and depending on the GS
   capture logic, may result in the aircraft pitching up. The type of false course is dependent on
   the GS antenna type, but in general, signal reversals will occur at 9°, false nulls will occur at
   12°, and both may occur around 6°. Although indications of an abnormal condition may be
   present, flight crews should be aware that there may be no warning prior to crossing a false
   GS. Specific airplane indications and autoflight responses when approaching or capturing a
   false GS are aircraft-dependent; therefore, operating and/or training manuals should be
   referenced for additional information regarding the consequences of capturing a false GS
   and for guidance to detect and prevent false GS captures.

    Note that, if the approach is conducted at the altitudes specified on the appropriate approach
    chart (GS captured from below), these false courses are not encountered. Intercepting the
    GS from above increases both the possibility of a non-stabilized approach and the risk of
    capturing a false GS. Flight crews should also maintain flight path awareness (i.e., altitude
    vs. distance crosschecks) during the approach to ensure false GSs are not encountered or
    followed.
