NISTIR 8006

NIST Cloud Computing
Forensic Science Challenges
Martin Herman
Michaela Iorga
Ahsen Michael Salim
Robert H. Jackson
Mark R. Hurst
Ross Leo
Richard Lee
Nancy M. Landreville
Anand Kumar Mishra
Yien Wang
Rodrigo Sardinas
This publication is available free of charge from:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

NISTIR 8006

NIST Cloud Computing
Forensic Science Challenges
Martin Herman

Richard Lee

Information Access Division
Information Technology Laboratory

Citizens Financial Group
Johnston, RI

Michaela Iorga

Nancy M. Landreville

Computer Security Division
Information Technology Laboratory

Ahsen Michael Salim

MELE Associates (Germantown, MD)
and Univ. of Maryland, GC (Adelphi, MD)

Anand Kumar Mishra

American Data Technology, Inc.
Research Triangle Park, NC

Malaviya National Institute of Technology
Jaipur, India

Robert H. Jackson
Mark R. Hurst

Yien Wang
Rodrigo Sardinas

SphereCom Enterprises Inc.
Marshall, VA

Auburn University
Auburn, AL

Ross Leo

University of Houston-Clear Lake
CyberSecurity Institute
Houston, TX

This publication is available free of charge from:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006
August 2020

U.S. Department of Commerce
Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Secretary
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Walter Copan, NIST Director and Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

National Institute of Standards and Technology Interagency or Internal Report 8006
87 pages (August 2020)

This publication is available free of charge from:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006
Certain commercial entities, equipment, or materials may be identified in this document in order to describe an
experimental procedure or concept adequately. Such identification is not intended to imply recommendation or
endorsement by NIST, nor is it intended to imply that the entities, materials, or equipment are necessarily the best
available for the purpose.
This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

There may be references in this publication to other publications currently under development by NIST in accordance
with its assigned statutory responsibilities. The information in this publication, including concepts and methodologies,
may be used by federal agencies even before the completion of such companion publications. Thus, until each
publication is completed, current requirements, guidelines, and procedures, where they exist, remain operative. For
planning and transition purposes, federal agencies may wish to closely follow the development of these new
publications by NIST.
Organizations are encouraged to review all draft publications during public comment periods and provide feedback to
NIST. All NIST Computer Security Division publications, other than the ones noted above, are available at
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications.

Comments on this publication may be submitted to:
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Attn: Computer Security Division, Information Technology Laboratory
100 Bureau Drive (Mail Stop 8930) Gaithersburg, MD 20899-8930
Email: nistir8006@nist.gov

All comments are subject to release under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).

iv

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Reports on Computer Systems Technology
The Information Technology Laboratory (ITL) at the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) promotes the U.S. economy and public welfare by providing technical
leadership for the Nation’s measurement and standards infrastructure. ITL develops tests, test
methods, reference data, proof of concept implementations, and technical analyses to advance the
development and productive use of information technology. ITL’s responsibilities include the
development of management, administrative, technical, and physical standards and guidelines for
the cost-effective security and privacy of other than national security-related information in federal
information systems.
This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Abstract
This document summarizes research performed by the members of the NIST Cloud Computing
Forensic Science Working Group and aggregates, categorizes, and discusses the forensics
challenges faced by experts when responding to incidents that have occurred in a cloud-computing
ecosystem. The challenges are presented along with the associated literature that references them.
The immediate goal of the document is to begin a dialogue on forensic science concerns in cloud
computing ecosystems. The long-term goal of this effort is to gain a deeper understanding of those
concerns (challenges) and to identify technologies and standards that can mitigate them.
Keywords
cloud computing forensics; digital forensics; forensic science; forensics; forensics challenges.

v

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Acknowledgments
This report is dedicated to the memory of our colleague, collaborator, and friend, Ernesto
F. Rojas of Forensic & Security Services Inc., who passed away unexpectedly.

Final Report
This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

This publication was developed by the NIST Cloud Computing Forensic Science Working Group
(NCC FSWG) chaired by Dr. Martin Herman and Dr. Michaela Iorga. NIST and the co-chairs wish
to gratefully acknowledge and thank the members whose dedicated efforts contributed
significantly to addressing the public comments to the June 2014 Draft report and to updating and
enhancing the publication. We also thank Ramaswamy Chandramouli of NIST and Kim-Kwang
Raymond Choo of the University of Texas at San Antonio for reviewing the document and
providing feedback.

vi

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

June 2014 Draft Report
NOTE: The following section acknowledges the initial collaborators and is reproduced exactly as
it appeared in the June 2014 draft report.
This publication was developed by the NIST Cloud Computing Forensic Science Working Group
(NCC FSWG), chaired by Dr. Michaela Iorga and Mr. Eric Simmon. The principal editors of this
document are Dr. Martin Herman (NIST Senior Adviser) and Dr. Michaela Iorga. NIST, and the
principal editors wish to gratefully acknowledge and thank the members whose dedicated efforts
contributed significantly to the publication.
This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

The following list (in alphabetical order by last name) includes contributors,1 internal reviewers of
the document, and other active members who provided feedback and who have agreed to be
acknowledged in this document.
CONTRIBUTORS (document and challenges aggregation):
Josiah Dykstra, Ph.D., Department of Defense
Lon Gowen, Ph.D., United States Agency for International Development
Robert Jackson, SphereCom Enterprises Inc.
Otto Scot Reemelin, CBIZ
Ernesto F. Rojas, Forensic & Security Services Inc.
Keyun Ruan, Ph.D., Espion Group
Mike Salim, American Data Technology, Inc.
Ken E. Stavinoha, Ph.D., Cisco Systems
Laura P. Taylor, Relevant Technologies
Kenneth R. Zatyko, Forensics Technologies & Discovery Services, Ernst & Young LLP
INTERNAL REVIEWERS:
Nancy M. Landreville, University of Maryland University College & BRCTC
Kristy M. Westphal, Element Payment Services
OTHER ACTIVE MEMBERS:
Ragib Hasan, Ph.D., Assistant Prof., Dept. of Computer and Information Sciences, Univ. of
Alabama at Birmingham
Mark Potter, Danya International
Anthony M. Rutkowski, Yaana Technologies
NOTE: All views expressed in this document by the contributors are their personal opinions and
not those of the organizations with which they are affiliated.

vii

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Executive Summary
The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) has been designated by the Federal
Chief Information Officer (CIO) to accelerate the Federal Government’s secure adoption of cloud
computing by leading efforts to develop standards and guidelines in close consultation and
collaboration with standards bodies, the private sector, and other stakeholders.

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Consistent with NIST’s mission, 1 the NIST Cloud Computing Program (NCCP) has developed the
NIST Cloud Computing Standards Roadmap [1] as one of many mechanisms in support of the
U.S. Government’s (USG’s) secure and effective adoption of cloud computing technology 2 to
reduce costs and improve services. Standards are critical to ensure cost-effective and easy
migration, to ensure that mission-critical requirements can be met, and to reduce the risk that
sizable investments may become prematurely technologically obsolete. Standards are key
elements required to ensure a level playing field in the global marketplace. The importance of
setting standards in close relation with private sector involvement is highlighted in a memorandum
from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), M-12-08 [2], dated January 17, 2012.
With the rapid adoption of cloud computing technology, a need has arisen for the application of
digital forensic science to this domain. The validity and reliability of forensic science is crucial in
this new context and requires new methodologies for identifying, collecting, preserving, and
analyzing evidence in multi-tenant cloud 3 environments that offer rapid provisioning, global
elasticity, and broad network accessibility. This is necessary to support the U.S. criminal justice
and civil litigation systems as well as to provide capabilities for security incident response and
internal enterprise operations.
The NIST Cloud Computing Forensic Science Working Group (NCC FSWG) was established to
research forensic science challenges in the cloud environment and to develop plans for standards
and technology research to mitigate the challenges that cannot be addressed by current technology
and methods. The NCC FSWG has surveyed existing literature and defined a set of challenges
related to cloud computing forensics. These challenges, along with associated literature, are
presented in this document. The document also provides a preliminary analysis of these challenges
by including: (1) the relationship between each challenge to the five essential characteristics of
cloud computing as defined in the NIST cloud computing model [3], (2) how the challenges
correlate to cloud technology, and (3) nine categories to which the challenges belong. In addition,
the analysis considers logging data, data in media, and issues associated with time, location, and
sensitive data.

1
2

3

This effort is consistent with the NIST role per the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act (NTTAA) of 1995,
which became law in March 1996.
NIST Definition of Cloud Computing, NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-145 [3]: Cloud computing is a model for enabling
ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks,
servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or
service provider interaction.
The NIST definition of cloud computing [3] requires that The Provider’s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple
Consumers using a multi-tenant model…

viii

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .................................................................................................................................... VIII
1

INTRODUCTION......................................................................................................................................... 2
1.1
1.2

2

OVERVIEW ................................................................................................................................................ 3

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

2.1
2.2
3

DOCUMENT GOALS .......................................................................................................................................... 2
AUDIENCE ...................................................................................................................................................... 2
CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE ............................................................................................................... 3
DEFINING WHAT CONSTITUTES A CHALLENGE FOR CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSICS ...................................................... 4

CLOUD FORENSIC CHALLENGES ................................................................................................................. 5
3.1
COLLECTION AND AGGREGATION OF FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES ........................................................................ 5
3.2
ANALYSIS AND CATEGORIZATION OF THE CHALLENGES ............................................................................................ 6
3.2.1
Relevance of Essential Cloud Characteristics ......................................................................................... 6
3.2.2
Correlation Between Cloud Technology and Forensic Science Challenges ............................................. 7
3.2.3
Categorization of Challenges ................................................................................................................. 8

4

ADDITIONAL ANALYSIS OF THE CHALLENGES ............................................................................................ 11
4.1

5

ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS ............................................................................................................................ 12

CONCLUSIONS .......................................................................................................................................... 14

REFERENCES...................................................................................................................................................... 15
APPENDIX A:

ACRONYMS ............................................................................................................................ 22

APPENDIX B:

GLOSSARY .............................................................................................................................. 24

ANNEX A:

CLOUD FORENSIC CHALLENGES ................................................................................................... 26

ANNEX B:

CSA’S ENTERPRISE ARCHITECTURE (TCI V2.0) ............................................................................... 77

ANNEX C:

MIND MAPS................................................................................................................................ 78

Table of Figures
Figure 1: CSA’s Enterprise Architecture ....................................................................................................................... 78
Figure 2: Mind Map – Categories and Subcategories .................................................................................................. 78
Figure 3: Mind Map – Primary Categories ................................................................................................................... 79
Figure 4: Mind Map – Related Categories ................................................................................................................... 80

ix

NISTIR 8006

1

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Introduction

Cloud computing has revolutionized the methods by which digital data is stored, processed, and
transmitted. One of the most daunting new challenges is how to perform digital forensics in various
types of cloud computing environments. The challenges associated with conducting forensics in
different cloud deployment models, which may cross geographic or legal boundaries, have become
an issue.

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

NIST carries out many research activities related to forensic science. The goals of these activities
are to improve the accuracy, reliability, and scientific validity of forensic science methods and
practices through advances in its measurements and standards infrastructure. As part of these
activities, the NIST Cloud Computing Forensic Science Working Group (NCC FSWG) is
identifying emerging standards and technologies that would help solve challenges, that is, the most
pressing problems fundamental to carrying out forensics in a cloud computing environment to
lawfully obtain (e.g., via warrant or subpoena) all relevant artifacts, as well as to provide
capabilities for security incident response and internal enterprise operations.
The cloud exacerbates many technological, organizational, and legal challenges already faced by
digital forensic examiners. Several of these challenges—such as those associated with data
replication, location transparency, and multi-tenancy—are somewhat unique to cloud computing
forensics [4], [72]. The NCC FSWG has collected and aggregated a list of cloud forensic
challenges (see Annex A) that are introduced and discussed in this document. Future work will
involve identifying gaps in technology and standards related to the challenges that need to be
addressed and developing possible technological and standards approaches to mitigate these
challenges.
1.1

Document Goals

This document is intended to serve as a basis for a dialogue on forensic science concerns in cloud
Ecosystems 4 and as a starting point for understanding those concerns (challenges) with the intent
of allowing the cloud computing community to identify the technologies and standards that can
mitigate these challenges.
1.2

Audience

The primary audience for this document includes digital forensic examiners, developers and
researchers, cloud security professionals, law enforcement officers, and cloud Auditors. However,
given the breadth and depth of this topic, many other stakeholders—such as cloud policy makers,
executives, and the general user population of cloud Consumers—may also be interested in certain
aspects of this document.

4

The term Ecosystems is capitalized here for consistency with the capitalization of cloud-related terms in other NIST
publications. Other terms to be capitalized in this report include cloud Actor, Provider, Consumer, Auditor, Broker and
Carrier.

2

NISTIR 8006

2

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Overview

This section discusses the characteristics of cloud computing forensic science, elaborates on why
cloud computing challenges traditional digital forensics methods, and describes what constitutes a
challenge for cloud forensics.
2.1

Cloud Computing Forensic Science

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Many experts consider forensic science to be the application of a broad spectrum of sciences and
technologies to the investigation and establishment of facts of interest in relation to criminal law,
civil law, or regulatory issues. The rapid advance of cloud services requires the development of
better forensic tools to keep pace. However, the resulting techniques may also be used for purposes
other than legal and regulatory issues to reconstruct an event that has occurred.
Cloud computing forensic science is the application of scientific principles, technological
practices, and derived and proven methods to reconstruct past cloud computing events through the
identification, acquisition, preservation, examination, interpretation, and reporting of potential
digital evidence.
NIST defines cloud computing as a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand
network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers,
storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal
management effort or service Provider interaction. This cloud model is composed of five essential
characteristics, three service models, and four deployment models [3]. Cloud forensics is a process
applied to an implementation of this cloud model.
A number of researchers have defined cloud forensics as the application of digital forensic science
in cloud environments [4], [72], [73]. Technically, it consists of a hybrid forensic approach (e.g.,
remote, virtual, network, live, large-scale, thin-client, thick-client, including end-point devices
used to access cloud services) to the discovery of digital evidence. Organizationally, it involves
interactions among cloud Actors (i.e., Provider, Consumer, Broker, Carrier, Auditor) for the
purpose of facilitating both internal and external investigations. Legally, it often implies multijurisdictional and multi-tenant situations.
Various process models have been developed for digital forensics, including the following eight
distinctive steps and attributes [5]:
1. Search authority. Legal authority is required to conduct a search and/or seizure of data.
2. Chain of custody. In legal contexts, chronological documentation of access and handling
of evidentiary items is required to avoid allegations of evidence tampering or misconduct.
3. Imaging/hashing function. When items containing potential digital evidence are found,
each should be carefully duplicated and then hashed to validate the integrity of the copy.
4. Validated tools. When possible, tools used for forensics should be validated to ensure
reliability and correctness.
5. Analysis. Forensic analysis is the execution of investigative and analytical techniques to
examine, analyze, and interpret the evidentiary artifacts retrieved.

3

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

6. Repeatability and reproducibility (quality assurance). The procedures and conclusions
of forensic analysis should be repeatable and reproducible by the same or other forensic
analysts [6].
7. Reporting. The forensic analyst must document his or her analytical procedure and
conclusions for use by others.
8. Presentation. In most cases, the forensic analyst will present his or her findings and
conclusions to a court or other audience.

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

In order to carry out digital forensic investigations in the cloud, these steps need to be applied or
adapted to the cloud context. Many of them pose significant challenges. This document is focused
on the forensic analysis of artifacts retrieved from a cloud environment. A related discipline, which
is not addressed here, focuses on carrying out the forensic process using a cloud environment. This
involves using the cloud to perform examination and analysis of digital evidence [6]
2.2

Defining What Constitutes a Challenge for Cloud Computing Forensics

The numerous challenges for the various stakeholders who share an interest in forensic analysis of
cloud computing environments can be broadly categorized into technical, legal, and
organizational 5 challenges. These challenges occur when identification and acquisition tasks
become impeded or when examination and interpretation by a digital forensic examiner is
prevented.
Compared to the challenges of traditional digital forensics, those of cloud forensics are considered
to either be unique to the cloud environment or exacerbated by the cloud environment [4]. While
the goals of first responders and forensic examiners may be the same in the cloud context as in
traditional, large-scale computer and network forensics, distinctive features of cloud computing—
such as segregation of duties among cloud Actors, inability to acquire system and network logs,
multi-tenancy, and rapid elasticity—introduce unique scenarios to digital investigations. On the
other hand, challenges associated with, for example, virtualization, large-scale data processing,
and the proliferation of mobile devices and other endpoints are exacerbated in the cloud.
Cloud forensic challenges cannot be solved by technological, legal, or organizational principles
alone. Many of the challenges need solutions from all three areas, and scholars and practitioners
have been discussing these challenges. This report focuses more on the technical challenges (which
need to be understood in order to develop technology) and standards-based mitigation approaches.

5

Organizational challenges involve cloud Actors working together to obtain digital evidence. Cloud Actors include Consumers,
Providers, Brokers, Auditors, and Carriers [4].

4

NISTIR 8006

3

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Cloud Forensic Challenges

This section discusses how the NCC FSWG collected and aggregated the challenges and provides
an analysis and categorization of those challenges.
3.1

Collection and Aggregation of Forensic Science Challenges

The first step in identifying the challenges that cloud forensic examiners face was to study the
existing literature and gather available data on this topic. The data was then aggregated as a
collective group effort by the active participants of the NCC FSWG 6 in a meaningful way that
allowed for further analysis. The methodology for gathering the data was as follows:
This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

•

Perform a literature search. Most of these sources are listed in the References Section (Section
8).

•

Obtain input from a variety of stakeholders in the group.

•

Have various group discussions among the participants through scheduled conference calls as
well as emails.

The data gathered was inserted into two tables (shown in Annex A) that currently list 62
challenges, including challenge descriptions, results of overcoming the challenges, relevance of
cloud computing essential characteristics [3], correlations between challenges and functionalcapabilities, categories of the challenges, and relevant references in the literature.
The major objectives of these tables are to:
•

Identify the major challenges in conducting digital forensics procedures where the evidence
resides in a cloud computing environment. While there are challenges in conducting any
digital forensics procedure, the essential characteristics of cloud computing systems
enumerated in Section 3.2 provide many challenges that are not encountered or are
encountered to a lesser degree in more traditional computing models.

•

Create an ongoing dialogue among stakeholders to define potential technology- and
standards-based approaches to the mitigation of forensic challenges faced in the cloud
computing environment. The challenges identified in the Cloud Forensic Challenges tables
(Annex A) are certainly not comprehensive and will continue to evolve. The long-term
objectives are to identify technology and standards gaps related to the challenges that need to
be addressed and to develop possible technological and standards approaches to mitigate those
challenges.

Taken as a whole, the items identified by the Cloud Forensic Challenges tables represent many of
the major challenges that arise while performing digital forensics in the cloud environment based
on the collective experience of the NCC FSWG. The NCC FSWG hopes that by initiating this
dialogue, the experience of other professionals can be drawn upon to further refine and update this
information.

6 These active participants represent numerous key cloud Ecosystem stakeholders, including government, industry, and academia,

both domestically and internationally.

5

NISTIR 8006

3.2

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Analysis and Categorization of the Challenges

Once the forensic science challenges were collected and aggregated, a multi-dimensional
analysis and categorization of these challenges were performed to identify each one’s cloudbased root cause and to organize them in categories that are agnostic to cloud Providers or cloud
service models.
3.2.1

Relevance of Essential Cloud Characteristics

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

The NCC FSWG intended to keep the challenges generic and, therefore, disregarded the myriad
architectural differences among the many cloud computing family of offerings when analyzing the
aggregated challenges.
Additionally, the team targeted only the digital forensic challenges unique to or exacerbated by the
cloud environment. To assist in filtering out the challenges that do not have a cloud-based root
cause, the team analyzed each challenge through the lens of the five essential characteristics of
the cloud computing model as defined in The NIST Definition of Cloud Computing [3]. These
characteristics are used to identify whether a challenge has a cloud-based root cause. Table 2 of
Annex A captures this analysis in the third column, which identifies the characteristics most
relevant to each challenge. The essential characteristics of the cloud computing model are
reproduced below:
•

On-demand self-service: A Consumer can automatically and unilaterally provision
computing capabilities, such as server time and network storage, as needed without requiring
human interaction with each cloud service Provider.

•

Broad network access: Capabilities are available over the network and accessed through
standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms (e.g.,
mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and workstations).

•

Resource pooling: The Provider’s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple
Consumers using a multi-tenant model with different physical and virtual resources
dynamically assigned and reassigned according to consumer demand. There is a sense of
location independence in that the Consumer generally has no control over or knowledge of
the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher
level of abstraction (e.g., country, state, or data center). Examples of resources include
storage, processing, memory, and network bandwidth.

•

Rapid elasticity: Capabilities can be elastically provisioned and released, in some cases
automatically, to rapidly scale outward and inward commensurate with demand. To the
Consumer, the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can
be appropriated in any quantity at any time.

•

Measured service: Cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by
leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service
(e.g., storage, processing, bandwidth, and active user accounts). Resource usage can be
monitored, controlled, and reported, providing transparency for both the Provider and
Consumer of the utilized service.

6

NISTIR 8006

3.2.2

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Correlation Between Cloud Technology and Forensic Science Challenges

To better understand the correlation between the cloud forensic science challenges and their
cloud-based root cause, the NCC FSWG analyzed each challenge’s relationship to the cloud
functional capabilities (cloud processes or solutions) identified in the Cloud Security Alliance’s
(CSA’s) Enterprise Architecture (EA) [9]and leveraged by the NIST Cloud Security Reference
Architecture (CSRA) [10].
The CSA’s EA, reproduced in Annex C, Fig. 1, covers the following domains:

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

a. Business Operations and Support (BOSS) – has capabilities associated with cloud IT
services to support an organization’s business needs.
b. Information Technology Operation & Support (ITOS) – has capabilities associated with
managing the cloud IT services of an organization.
c. Security and Risk Management (S & RM) – has capabilities associated with
safeguarding cloud IT assets and detecting, assessing, and monitoring cloud IT risks.
The CSA’s EA also identifies the corresponding data grouping into the following service layers:
d. Presentation Services – has capabilities associated with the end user interacting with a
cloud IT solution.
e. Application Services – has capabilities associated with the development and use of
cloud applications provided by an organization.
f. Information Services – has capabilities associated with storage and the use of cloud
information and data.
g. Infrastructure Services – has capabilities associated with core functions that support the
cloud IT infrastructure, such as facilities, hardware, networks, and virtual
environments.
Altogether, there are 347 functional capabilities listed within these categories.
The correlations between the forensic challenges and these functional capabilities were examined
by determining the relationship between a particular forensic challenge and a particular
functional capability (all possible pairs of challenges and capabilities were considered) and by
labeling the challenge (as describe below) based on the functional capabilities affected.
The relationship was determined by:
1. Clarifying what it means for a challenge to be overcome (see Annex A, Table 1, column
5 that identifies what would be the result if the challenge were, in fact, overcome?) and
2. Answering the question, If the challenge were overcome, would that make it easier to
conduct a cloud forensic investigation on the considered functional capability? 7
Analysis of the correlation between the forensic science challenges and the functional
capabilities constitutes the foundation for labeling each challenge based on the functional
capabilities affected by the challenge. Each challenge is labeled along a generic-to-specific axis
(see Annex A, Table 2, column 4). A challenge is labeled generic if it applies to most of the

7 The results of this analysis will be presented in a future NIST publication.

7

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

capabilities. A challenge is labeled specific if it applies to a limited set of capabilities. A
challenge is labeled quasi if it falls somewhere between generic and specific.
3.2.3

Categorization of Challenges

A review of the Annex A challenges reveals that a majority of the issues are technical in nature
with a major secondary group that is framed by legal and organizational issues. The technical
issues revolve around the differences between the operating framework of cloud computing and
traditional data center computing. The legal and organizational issues primarily reflect the crossing
of national borders and legal jurisdictions by the manner in which cloud Providers store cloud
Consumer’s information for operational redundancy, cost, and reliability.
This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

To facilitate a more detailed understanding and analysis of the identified challenges, they have
been organized into the mind map shown in Annex C. The mind map provides a graphic depiction
of the relationship between challenges and was used to structure and classify them into categories.
The highest level of the mind map (presented in blue text) represents the complete set of challenges
that are identified in Annex A.
To assist in a meaningful analysis, the challenges are categorized into the following nine major
groups (presented in red text in the mind map). The categories and associated descriptions below
provide a summary of the contents of Annex A. Some of the challenges lie in more than one
category because, as will be described, a challenge may be part of a primary category and also part
of a different related category. Refer to Annex A, Table 2 for the details.
• Architecture (e.g., diversity, complexity, provenance, multi-tenancy, data segregation).
Architecture challenges in cloud forensics include:
o Dealing with variability in cloud architectures between Providers
o Tenant data compartmentalization and isolation during resource provisioning
o Proliferation of systems, locations, and endpoints that can store data
o Accurate and secure provenance for maintaining and preserving chain of custody

• Data collection (e.g., data integrity, data recovery, data location, imaging). Data collection
challenges in cloud forensics include:
o Locating forensic artifacts in large, distributed, and dynamic systems
o Locating and collecting volatile data
o Data collection from virtual machines
o Data integrity in a multi-tenant environment where data is shared among multiple
computers in multiple locations and accessible by multiple parties
o Inability to image all of the forensic artifacts in the cloud
o Accessing the data of one tenant without breaching the confidentiality of other tenants
o Recovery of deleted data in a shared and distributed virtual environment

• Analysis (e.g., correlation, reconstruction, time synchronization, logs, metadata,
timelines). Analysis challenges in cloud forensics include:
o Correlation of forensic artifacts across and within cloud Providers
o Reconstruction of events from virtual images or storage
o Integrity of metadata
o Timeline analysis of log data, including synchronization of timestamps
8

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

• Anti-forensics (e.g., obfuscation, data hiding, malware). Anti-forensics are a set of
techniques used specifically to prevent or mislead forensic analysis. Anti-forensic challenges
in cloud forensics include:
o The use of obfuscation, malware, data hiding, or other techniques to compromise the
integrity of evidence
o Malware may circumvent virtual machine isolation methods

• Incident first responders (e.g., trustworthiness of cloud Providers, response time,
reconstruction). Incident first responder challenges in cloud forensics include:
This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

o Confidence, competence, and trustworthiness of the cloud Providers to act as first
responders and perform data collection
o Difficulty in performing initial triage
o Processing a large volume of collected forensic artifacts

• Role management (e.g., data owners, identity management, users, access control). Role
management challenges in cloud forensics include:
o Uniquely identifying the owner of an account
o Decoupling between cloud user credentials and physical users
o Ease of anonymity and creating fictitious identities online
o Determining exact ownership of data
o Authentication and access control
• Legal (e.g., jurisdictions, laws, service level agreements, contracts, subpoenas,
international cooperation, privacy, ethics). Legal challenges in cloud forensics include:
o Identifying and addressing issues of jurisdictions for legal access to data
o Lack of effective channels for international communication and cooperation during an
investigation
o Data acquisition that relies on the cooperation of cloud Providers, as well as their
competence and trustworthiness
o Missing terms in contracts and service level agreements
o Issuing subpoenas without knowledge of the physical location of data

• Standards (e.g., standard operating procedures, interoperability, testing, validation).
Standards challenges in cloud forensics include:
o Lack of even minimum/basic SOPs, practices, and tools
o Lack of interoperability among cloud Providers
o Lack of test and validation procedures

• Training (e.g., forensic investigators, cloud Providers, qualification, certification).
Training challenges in cloud forensics include:
o Misuse of digital forensic training materials that are not applicable to cloud forensics
o Lack of cloud forensic training and expertise for both investigators and instructors
o Limited knowledge by record-keeping personnel in cloud Providers about evidence

Once the challenges were grouped into their primary categories, it was determined that several
challenges could logically be grouped into subcategories (presented in green text on the mind
9

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

map). For example, Data Integrity and Data Recovery were determined to be two important
subcategories of the Data Collection category because multiple data collection challenges could
logically be grouped into these subcategories. Annex C.1 is the mind map that represents these
categories and subcategories. Once all of the categories and subcategories were identified, each of
the challenges in Annex A was analyzed in relationship to the other challenges and mapped into
the appropriate category (and subcategory, if appropriate). These challenges (presented in black
text on the mind map) are the end nodes for each path through the mind map.

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

During this preliminary analysis, it was also discovered that while every challenge could be
logically grouped into a primary category, many of the challenges overlapped into other categories.
Within Table 2 in Annex A, the latter challenges are identified as belonging to one or more related
categories. The primary and related category information is represented in the mind maps shown
in Annex C. Different node background colors were selected for primary and related categories. A
challenge’s primary category is depicted by a green node background (Annex C.2 shows the
primary categories), while a challenge’s related category is depicted by an orange background
(Annex C.3 shows the related categories).

10

NISTIR 8006

4

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Additional Analysis of the Challenges

The study examined challenges related to cloud computing forensics, and this section provides
additional insight into the nature of these challenges.

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

In traditional computer forensics, the centralized nature of IT systems allows investigators to have
full control over the forensic artifacts (e.g., router logs, process logs, hard disks). However, in a
cloud Ecosystem, the distributed nature of IT systems dictates that control over the functional
layers varies among cloud Actors depending on the cloud service model. Therefore, investigators
have a lower level of visibility and control over the forensic artifacts. For example, cloud
Consumers have the highest level of control over the functional stack in an Infrastructure as a
Service (IaaS) model and the least level of control in a Software as a Service (SaaS) model.
Because of this difference in control, evidence collection varies according to the service model
[11].
Important sources of forensic analysis are logs, many of which may be available in cloud
computing environments but may be hard to access or aggregate due to the segregation of duties
among Actors and the lack of transparency of log data for the Consumer. Three examples of such
logs are audit, security, and application logs. Audit logs are the records of interactions between
services and the underlying operating system. Security logs trace users to actions by identifying
the particular user who took an action on a particular date at a particular time. Application logs
record activity generated by the applications along with errors and other operational faults of the
applications.
When there is a potential need for forensic artifacts at the hypervisor/virtual machine monitor
(VMM) layers in cloud computing, additional complexities arise from the architecture of the cloud
Ecosystem. Just as there can be significant differences in how Windows, Linux, and other
operating systems create and handle events, there are different architectures and configurations for
hypervisors/VMMs from different manufacturers, and each has its own event definition and
logging (or lack thereof). Another level of variability and complexity is added by the fact that the
quantity and quality of log data for cloud products are often configurable by the cloud Providers
and/or Consumers [6]. Cloud computing can present a challenge to the acquisition of artifacts if,
for example, the creation and migration of a virtual path or virtual asset needs to be ascertained
across several virtual platforms or cloud Providers.
To perform forensic analysis using logs with integrity on which all stakeholders can rely, the logs
must be trusted [12]. Differences in log formats, decentralization of logs among different layers,
lack of accessibility to logs, the multi-tenancy nature of clouds, and the need to preserve the chain
of custody make log analysis challenging in clouds. Additionally, the use of logs in hypervisors is
not well-understood and presents a significant challenge to cloud forensics.
The identification, collection, and preservation of media can be particularly challenging in a cloud
computing environment because of several possible factors, including:
1) The identification of the cloud Provider and its partners, which is needed to better
understand the environment and thus address the factors below
2) The ability to conclusively identify the proper accounts held within the cloud by a
Consumer, especially if different identities are used
3) The ability of the forensic examiner to gain access to the desired media
11

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

4) The ability to obtain assistance from the cloud infrastructure/application Provider service
staff
5) An understanding of the topology, proprietary policies, and storage systems within the
cloud.
6) The examiner’s ability to complete a forensically sound image of the media once access is
obtained
7) The sheer volume of the media
8) The ability to respond in a timely fashion to more than one physical location, if necessary
This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

9) E-discovery, log file collection, and privacy rights, given a multi-tenancy system (e.g., how
does one collect the set of log files applicable for this matter versus extraneous information
with possible privacy rights protections?)
10) Validation of the forensic image
11) The ability to perform analysis on encrypted data and the forensic investigator’s ability to
obtain keys for decryption
12) The storage system no longer being local
13) Often no way to link given evidence to a particular individual other than by relying on the
cloud Provider’s word, although there may be evidence in the client endpoint that can link
the individual to evidence in the cloud [6]
Standards and technologies need to be developed to address these challenges. For example,
forensic protocols need to be developed that can be adopted by the major cloud Providers. These
protocols must adequately address the needs of first responders, law enforcement, and court
systems while assuring cloud Providers that there will be minimal or no disruption to their
service(s). On the technology front, an example of a current need is the ability to lawfully perform
remote digital forensics collections that will lower the cost of travel. In essence, this will involve
electronically moving forensic images and metadata from the cloud Provider to a forensics lab.
Potential approaches include a documented process for the remote, programmatic collection of
evidential data like the one proposed in [6] or even performing the forensics in a scientifically
sound manner in the cloud itself.
4.1

Additional Observations

During preliminary analysis, some common topics were identified in these challenges, each of
which overlaps several of the categories enumerated in the mind map. These topics appear to be
orthogonal to those categories and are included here to provide additional insight into the
challenges.
•

Time – Time is frequently a critical issue as it relates to time synchronization and the possible
disappearance of evidence that is not quickly found, as Zimmerman and Glavach [13] point
out. Once the information source is identified, do all involved entities have the time
synchronized using a consistent time source such as Network Time Protocol (NTP)? If a
forensic expert has a difficult time convincing your legal counsel that the time stamps from
client-side log files match time stamps on provider-side log files, the forensics will be difficult
to defend. In addition to using NTP to ensure that all server time is synced, the issue of time
12

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

zones used in timestamps must be addressed in cloud forensics. Not all systems use
Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) timestamps; when recorded in local time, the time zone
offset must be collected from the server. Additionally, if evidence is not found quickly enough,
it may be overwritten or lost in some other manner. Some example challenges in Annex A
related to time include FC-05 (Timestamp synchronization), FC-14 (Real-time investigation
intelligence processes not possible), FC-30 (Data available for a limited time), and FC-53
(International cloud services).

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

•

Location – Locating digital media can be a time-consuming process in cloud environment
cases. Both backup and redundant storage are important, and an understanding of the topology
will aid in identifying physical locations of media storage. Locating the evidence can be a big
hurdle. As pointed out by Zimmerman and Glavach [13], before network or computer forensics
can begin, the network or computer must be ‘found.’ There may only be traces of a virtual
machine (VM) because the VM may reside on dispersed, internationally-located physical
drives. When forensic data is collected on a physical resource, the justification for collecting
that data on that particular resource must be shown by showing the validity of the logical to
physical mapping. This is critical since all components – computing, network and storage are
virtualized in the cloud. Some example challenges in Annex A related to location include FC17 (Multiple venues and geo-locations), FC-25 (Decreased access and data control), FC-27
(Locating evidence), FC-37 (Additional evidence collection), FC-48 (Physical data location),
and FC-60 (Decoupling user credentials & physical location).

•

Sensitive data – Sensitive data theft cases (insider, outsider, and both working together) are
an important issue. According to CIO.com [14], the U.S. Commission on Intellectual Property
estimates over $300 billion in annual losses to U.S. companies due to theft. The pervasive
personal use of cloud computing environments by employees could heighten the risk of insider
theft given the low-cost storage arrays available and low-cost, high-speed bandwidth to move
data. The intrusion threat has grown for all systems connected to the internet. Some example
challenges in Annex A related to sensitive data include FC-39 (Selective data acquisition), FC56 (Confidentiality and Personally Identifiable Information [PII]), FC-61 (Authentication and
access control), and FC-07 (Use of metadata).

13

NISTIR 8006

5

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Conclusions

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

This document highlights many of the forensic challenges in the cloud computing environment for
digital forensic examiners, cloud Providers, law enforcement, and others. The information in this
document was developed as a result of examining recent research papers and involved the
international community. It provides a definition of cloud computing forensics to scope this area
and describes the relationship of each challenge to the five essential characteristics of cloud
computing. The document also discusses how the challenges correlate to cloud technology by
considering their relationship to the Cloud Security Alliance’s Enterprise Architecture. The
categories of challenges include architecture, data collection, analysis, anti-forensics, incident first
responders, role management, legal issues, standards, and training. Finally, the results of
overcoming each challenge are provided.
As pointed out in [15], more research is required in the cyber domain, especially in cloud
computing, to identify and categorize the unique aspects of where and how digital evidence can
be found. End points such as mobile devices add complexity to this domain. Trace evidence can
be found on servers, switches, routers, cell phones, etc. Digital evidence can be found at the
expansive scenes of the crime which includes numerous computers as well as peripheral devices.
To aid in this quest, digital forensics standards and frameworks for digital forensics technologies
are required now more than ever in our networked environment. This was also echoed in a more
recent literature survey [74], which also identified a number of cloud forensic research and
operational challenges, such as the need for a forensic-by-design framework that allows integration
of forensic tools into the development of cloud physical system to mitigate risks and enable
forensic capabilities.
The NCC FSWG will continue its efforts and initiate more dialogue among stakeholders. The next
steps include: (1) further analyzing the cloud forensic challenges, (2) prioritizing the challenges,
(3) developing a Cloud Forensics Reference Architecture, (4) choosing the highest priority
challenges and determining the corresponding gaps in technology and standards that need to be
addressed, and (5) developing a roadmap to address these gaps.

14

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

References

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

[1]

Hogan M, Liu F, Sokol A, Tong J (2011) NIST Cloud Computing Standards
Roadmap. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD),
NIST Special Publication (SP) 500-291.
https://tsapps.nist.gov/publication/get_pdf.cfm?pub_id=909024

[2]

Executive Office of the President (2012), Principles for Federal Engagement in
Standards Activities to Address National Priorities, January 17, 2012
https://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/memoranda/2012/m-1208_1.pdf

[3]

Mell P, Grance T (2011) The NIST Definition of Cloud Computing. (National Institute
of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) 800145. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-145

[4]

Ruan K, Carthy J, Kechadi T, Crosbie M (2011) Cloud Forensics. 7th IFIP Advances
in Digital Forensics VII, G. Peterson and S. Shenoi (eds), vol. 361, pp. 35-46.

[5]

Zatyko K (2007) Commentary: Defining Digital Forensics. Forensic Magazine,
January 2, 2007.

[6]

Martini B, Choo KR, (2014) Remote Programmatic vCloud Forensics: A Six-Step
Collection Process and a Proof of Concept. Proceedings of the 13th IEEE International
Conference on Trust, Security and Privacy in Computing and Communications
(TrustCom), 24–26 September 2014.

[7]

Buchanan W, Graves J, Bose N, Macfarlane R, Davison B, Ludwiniak R, (2011)
Performance and student perception evaluation of cloud-based virtualized security and
digital forensics labs. In HEA ICS Conference.

[8]

Liu F, Tong J, Mao J, Bohn RB, Messina JV, Badger ML, Leaf DM (2011) NIST
Cloud Computing Reference Architecture (National Institute of Standards and
Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) 500-292.
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.500-292

[9]

Cloud Security Alliance, Trusted Cloud Initiative, Enterprise Reference Architecture,
https://downloads.cloudsecurityalliance.org/initiatives/tci/TCI_Reference_Architectur
e_v2.0.pdf

[10]

NIST SP 500-299: Cloud Security Reference Architecture (draft 1) , renumbered to
NIST SP 800-200 (draft 2):
https://github.com/usnistgov/CloudSecurityArchitectureToolCSAT/blob/master/Documents/NIST%20SP%20800-200SRA_DRAFT_20180414.pdf

15

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

[11]

Zawoad S, Hasan R, (2013) Digital Forensics in the Cloud, The Journal of Defense
Software Engineering (CrossTalk), Vol. 26, No 5, pp. 17-20, Sept 2013.

[12]

Zawoad S, Hasan R, (2012) Towards Building Proofs of Past Data Possession in
Cloud Forensics, Academy of Science and Engineering Journal, Vol. 1, Issue 4, pp.
195-207.

[13]

Zimmerman S, Glavach D, (2011) Cyber Forensics in the Cloud. Information
Assurance Technology Analysis Center (IATAC), IA newsletter, Vol 14, No 1,
Winter 2011.

[14]

Corbin K, (2013) Economic Impact of Cyber Espionage and IP Theft Hits U.S.
Businesses Hard, CIO.com, July 2013.
http://www.cio.com/article/736132/Economic_Impact_of_Cyber_Espionage_and_IP_
Theft_Hits_U.S._Businesses_Hard

[15]

Zatyko K, Bay J, (2012) The Digital Forensics Cyber Exchange Principle, Forensics
Magazine. 81. 13-15.

[16]

SWGDE Digital and Multimedia Evidence (Digital Forensics) as a Forensic Science
Discipline, Version 2.0, September 5, 2014.
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OBux0n7VZQe7HSgObwAtmhz5LgwvX0oY/view

[17]

SWGDE Digital and Multimedia Evidence Glossary, Version 3.0, June 23, 2016.
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZZwOqgVOWo6qDeoJqv6VKafY2i1RJI2B/view

[18]

Computer Forensics: Digital Forensic Analysis Methodology. January 2008, Volume
56, number 1, Department of Justice, USA.
https://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/usao/legacy/2008/02/04/usab5601.pdf

[19]

ISO/IEC 2382-1, Information technology - Vocabulary - Part 1: Fundamental terms,
1993. https://www.iso.org/standard/7229.html

[20]

Scarfone K, Souppaya M, Hoffman P (2011) Guide to Security for Full Virtualization
Technologies. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD),
NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-125. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-125

[21]

Carrier BD, (2006) Risks of live digital forensic analysis. Communications of the
ACM Volume 49, No 2, , 56-61, Feb. 2006,
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1113034.1113069.

[22]

Bilby D, (2006) Low Down and Dirty: Anti-Forensic Rootkits. Fourth Annual RuxCon
Conference (RuxCon 2006), Sydney, Australia.

[23]

Lu R, Lin X, Liang X, Shen XS, (2010) Secure provenance: the essential of bread and
butter of data forensics in cloud computing. In Proceedings of the 5th ACM
Symposium on Information, Computer and Communications Security (ASIACCS 10),
ACM, pp. 282–292.
16

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

[24]

Ruan K, (2013) Cloud forensics definitions and critical criteria for cloud forensic
capability: an overview of survey results, Digital Investigation, March 2013.

[25]

Spyridopoulos T, Katos V, (2012) Data Recovery Strategies for Cloud Environments,
Cybercrime and Cloud Forensics: Applications for Investigation Processes, Ed. Ruan
K, IGI Global, December 2012.

[26]

Fowler B, (2009) Securing a Virtual Environment,
http://www.infosecwriters.com/text_resources/pdf/BFowler_VIrtual_Environment.pdf

[27]

Gonsowski D, (2012) Compliance in the Cloud and Implications on Electronic
Discovery, Cybercrime and Cloud Forensics: Applications for Investigation Processes,
Ed. Ruan K, IGI Global, December 2012.

[28]

Grivas SG, Kumar TU, Wache H, (2010) Cloud Broker: Bringing Intelligence into the
Cloud - An Event-based Approach, IEEE 3rd International Conference on Cloud
Computing, pp. 544-545.

[29]

Ruan K, Carthy J, (2012) Cloud Computing Reference Architecture and its Forensic
Implications: a Preliminary Analysis, Proceedings of the 4th International Conference
on Digital Forensics & Cyber Crime, Springer Lecture Notes, October 25-26, 2012
Lafayette, Indiana, USA.

[30]

Mapping the Forensic Standard ISO/IEC 27037 to Cloud Computing, Cloud Security
Alliance, Incident Management and Forensics Working Group, June 2013.
https://downloads.cloudsecurityalliance.org/initiatives/imf/Mapping-the-ForensicStandard-ISO-IEC-27037-to-Cloud-Computing.pdf

[31]

Ruan K, James IJ, Carthy J, Kechadi T, (2012) Key Terms for Service Level
Agreement to Support Cloud Forensics, Advances in Digital Forensics VIII, Springer,
pp. 201-212.

[32]

Cohen F, (2012) Challenges to Digital Forensic Evidence in the Cloud, Cybercrime
and Cloud Forensics: Applications for Investigation Processes, Ed. Ruan K, IGI
Global, December 2012.

[33]

Grispos G, Storer T, Glisson W, (2012) Calm before the storm: the challenges of
cloud computing in digital forensics. International Journal of Digital Crime and
Forensics, 4 (2), pp. 28-48.

[34]

Marty R, (2011) Cloud application logging for forensics, ACM Proc., Symposium on
Applied Computing (SAC11), Taichung, Taiwan. ACM, pp. 178–184, March 2011.

[35]

Reilly D, Wren C, Berry T, (2011) Cloud Computing: Pros and Cons for Computer
Forensic Investigators. International Journal Multimedia and Image Processing
(IJMIP), Volume 1, Issue 1, March 2011.

[36]

Ruan K, (2013) Designing a Forensic-enabling Cloud Ecosystem, Cybercrime and
Cloud Forensics: Applications for Investigation Processes, Ed. Ruan K, IGI Global,
December 2013.
17

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

[37]

Anderson J, Rainie L, (2010) The future of cloud computing, Pew Research Center,
https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2010/06/11/the-future-of-cloud-computing.

[38]

Almulla S, Iraqi Y, Jones A, (2013) Cloud forensics: A research perspective, 9th
International Conference on Innovations in Information Technology (IIT).

[39]

Crosbie M, (2013) Hack the Cloud: Ethical Hacking and Cloud Forensics,
Cybercrime and Cloud Forensics: Applications for Investigation Processes, Ed. Ruan
K, IGI Global, December 2013.

[40]

Anderson R, Barton C, Bohme R, Clayton R, van Eeten JG, Levi M, Moore T,
Savage S, (2012) Measuring the Cost of Cybercrime, Workshop on the Economics of
Information Security (WEIS).
http://weis2012.econinfosec.org/papers/Anderson_WEIS2012.pdf

[41]

EC Council (2017) Ethical Hacking and Countermeasures: Attack Phases. 2nd Edition.
EC-Council Press.

[42]

Lemos R, (2010) Cloud-Based Denial Of Service Attacks Looming, Researchers Say,
DEFCON 2010. https://www.darkreading.com/attacks-breaches/cloud-based-denialof-service-attacks-looming-researchers-say/d/d-id/1134121

[43]

Ruan K, Carthy J, (2012) Cloud Forensic Maturity Model, Proceedings of the 4th
International Conference on Digital Forensics & Cyber Crime, Springer Lecture
Notes, October 25-26, Lafayette, Indiana, USA.

[44]

Decker M, Kruse W, Long B, Kelly G, (2011) Dispelling Common Myths of “Live
Digital Forensics,” http://dfcb.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/myth-of-liveforensics.pdf

[45]

Barrett D, (2013) Security Architecture and Forensic Awareness in Virtualized
Environments, Cybercrime and Cloud Forensics: Applications for Investigation
Processes, Ed. Ruan K, IGI Global, December 2013.

[46]

Kortchinsky K, (2009) CLOUDBURST: A VMware Guest to Host Escape Story,
BlackHat USA 2009, Las Vegas, https://www.blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa09/KORTCHINSKY/BHUSA09-Kortchinsky-Cloudburst-SLIDES.pdf

[47]

Adams R, (2012) The Emergence of Cloud Storage and Need for a New Digital
Forensic Process Model, Cybercrime and Cloud Forensics: Applications for
Investigation Processes, Ed., IGI Global, 2012.

[48]

Chen Y, Paxson V, Katz RH, (2010) What’s new about cloud computing security.
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of California at Berkeley,
Technical Report No. UCB/EECS-2010-5, January 20, 2010,
http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/Pubs/TechRpts/2010/EECS-2010-5.html

[49]

Dykstra J, Sherman AT, (2011) Understanding Issues in Cloud Forensics: Two
Hypothetical Case Studies. Proceedings of the ADFSL Conference on Digital
Forensics Security and Law, ASDFL, pp. 191–206.

18

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

[50]

Choo KR, (2010) Cloud computing: Challenges and future directions. Trends & Issues
in Crime and Criminal Justice, No 400: 1–6, Canberra: Australian Institute of
Criminology. https://www.aic.gov.au/publications/tandi/tandi400

[51]

Kaufman L, (2010) Can public-cloud security meet its unique challenges? Security
Privacy, IEEE 8, 4, pp. 55–57, July-Aug 2010.

[52]

Orton I, Alva A, Endicott-Popovsky B, (2013) Legal Process and Requirements for
Cloud Forensic Investigations, Cybercrime and Cloud Forensics: Applications for
Investigation Processes, Ed. Ruan K, IGI Global, December 2013.

[53]

Dykstra J, Sherman AT, (2013) Design and implementation of FROST: Digital
forensic tools for the OpenStack cloud computing platform, Digital Investigation,
Volume 10, Supplement, pp. S87-S95, August 2013,
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S174228761300056X

[54]

Dykstra J, (2012) Seizing Electronic Evidence from Cloud Computing Environments,
Cybercrime and Cloud Forensics: Applications for Investigation Processes, IGI
Global, December 2012.

[55]

Dykstra J, Riehl D, (2012) Forensic Collection of Electronic Evidence from
Infrastructure-as-a-Service Cloud Computing, Richmond Journal of Law and
Technology, http://jolt.richmond.edu/wordpress/?p=463 .

[56]

Muniswamy-Reddy K, Macko P, Seltzer M, (2010) Provenance for the cloud. In
Proceedings of the 8th USENIX conference on File and storage technologies
(FAST10). USENIX Association, Berkeley, CA, USA, 15-14, 2010.

[57]

Hay B, Nance, K Bishop, M. Storm clouds rising: Security challenges for IaaS cloud
computing. 44th Hawaii International Conference on system Sciences–HICSS 2011,
Kauai, Hawaii USA, pp. 1–7, 2011.

[58]

Birk D, Wegener C, (2011) Technical Issues of Forensic Investigations in Cloud
Computing Environments, IEEE Sixth International Workshop on Systematic
Approaches to Digital Forensic Engineering (SADFE), pp.1-10, 26 May 2011.

[59]

Kirsten, FB, Convery N, (2011) Storing Information in the Cloud – A Research
Project. Journal of the Society of Archivists, 32:2, 221-239,
https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00379816.2011.619693

[60]

Dykstra J, Sherman AT, (2012) Acquiring Forensic Evidence from Infrastructure-as-aService Cloud Computing: Exploring and Evaluating Tools, Trust, and Techniques,
Digital Investigation; 9, Supplement: S90–S98. The Proceedings of the Twelfth
Annual DFRWS C.

[61]

James JI, Shosha AF, Gladyshev P, (2013) Digital Forensic Investigation and Cloud
Computing, Cybercrime and Cloud Forensics: Applications for Investigation
Processes, Ed. Ruan K, IGI Global, December 2013.

19

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

[62]

Grobauer B, Schreck T, (2010) Towards Incident Handling in the Cloud: Challenges
and Approaches, CCSW '10: Proceedings of the 2010 ACM workshop on Cloud
computing security workshop October 2010, 77–86
https://doi.org/10.1145/1866835.1866850

[63]

Anthes G, (2010) Security in the cloud, Communications of the ACM 53(11): 16-18,
November 2010, DOI: 10.1145/1839676.1839683

[64]

Creeger M, (2010) Moving to the Edge: A CTO Roundtable on Network
Virtualization. Communications of the ACM, August 2010.
https://doi.org/10.1145/1787234.1787251

[65]

Convery N, (2010) Cloud computing toolkit: guidance for outsourcing information
storage to the cloud.
http://www.archives.org.uk/images/documents/Cloud_Computing_Toolkit-2.pdf

[66]

CIO Council & Chief Acquisition Officers Council, (2012) Creating Effective Cloud
Computing Contracts for the Federal Government.
https://s3.amazonaws.com/sitesusa/wpcontent/uploads/sites/1151/2016/10/cloudbestpractices.pdf

[67]

Cloud Security Alliance, Legal Information Center, (2013) What Rules Apply to
Government Access to Data Held by US Cloud Service Providers.
https://cloudsecurityalliance.org/artifacts/government-access-to-data-held-by-uscloud-service-providers/

[68]

Hooper C, Martini B, Choo KR, (2013) Cloud computing and its implications for
cybercrime investigations. In: Australia, Computer Law and Security Review 29(2):
152–163.

[69]

Cisco Visual Networking Index: Global Mobile Data Traffic Forecast Update 20152020, February 2016.
https://www.cisco.com/c/dam/m/en_in/innovation/enterprise/assets/mobile-whitepaper-c11-520862.pdf.

[70]

Pearson S, Yee G, (2012) Privacy, Security and Trust in Cloud Computing, In: Privacy
and Security for Cloud Computing, Computer Communications and Networks,
Springer.

[71]

Ferguson-Boucher K, Endicott-Popovsky B, (2013) Forensic Readiness in the Cloud:
Integrating Records Management and Digital Forensics. Cybercrime and Cloud
Forensics: Applications for Investigation Processes, IGI Global, https://www.igiglobal.com/chapter/forensic-readiness-cloud-frc/73960

[72]

Quick Q, Martini B, Choo KR, (2014) Cloud Storage Forensics, Syngress Publishing /
Elsevier.

[73]

Martini B, Choo KR, (2011) An integrated conceptual digital forensic framework for
cloud computing, Digital Investigation 9(2), pp. 71-80.

20

NISTIR 8006

[74]

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Manral B, Somani G, Choo KR, Conti M, Gaur MS, (2020) A Systematic Survey on
Cloud Forensics Challenges, Solutions, and Future Directions, ACM Computing
Surveys 52(6): 124:1-124:38, https://doi.org/10.1145/3361216

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

21

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Appendix A: Acronyms
Selected acronyms and abbreviations used in the document are defined below.

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

API

Application Programming Interface

BNA

Broad Network Access

BOSS

Business Operation Support Services

CIO

Chief Information Officer

DDoS

Distributed Denial of Service

DHCP

Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol

EC2

Elastic Compute Cloud

FC

Forensic Challenge

G

Generic

G8

Group of Eight

IaaS

Infrastructure as a Service

IATAC

Information Assurance Technology Analysis Center

IEEE

Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

INTERPOL

International Criminal Police Organization

IP

Internet Protocol

ITL

Information Technology Laboratory

ITOS

Information Technology Operation and Support

MS

Measured Service

N/A

Not Applicable

NCC FSWG NIST Cloud Computing Forensic Science Working Group
NCCP

NIST Cloud Computing Program

NIST

National Institute of Standards and Technology

NISTIR

NIST Interagency or Internal Report

NTP

Network Time Protocol

NTTAA

National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act

OD

On-Demand Self-Service

22

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

OMB

Office of Management and Budget

PaaS

Platform as a Service

PII

Personally Identifiable Information

PSK

Pre-Shared Key

Q

Quasi

RAM

Random Access Memory

RE

Rapid Elasticity

RP

Resource Pooling

S

Specific

SaaS

Software as a Service

S&RM

Security and Risk Management

SOP

Standard Operating Procedure

SP

Special Publication

SPAN

Switched Port Analyzer

SRA

Security Reference Architecture

TAPS

Test Access Port

TCP

Transmission Control Protocol

US

United States

USB

Universal Serial Bus

USG

United States Government

UTC

Coordinated Universal Time

VM

Virtual Machine

VMM

Virtual Machine Monitor

WPA

Wi-Fi Protected Access

23

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Appendix B: Glossary

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Challenge

For this paper, a currently difficult or impossible task that is either unique
to cloud computing or exacerbated by it

Cloud Auditor

A party that can conduct an independent assessment of cloud services,
information system operations, performance, and security of the cloud
implementation [8]

Cloud Broker

An entity that manages the use, performance, and delivery of cloud
services and negotiates relationships between Cloud Providers and Cloud
Consumers [8]

Cloud Carrier

An intermediary that provides connectivity and transport of cloud services
from Cloud Providers to Cloud Consumers [8]

Cloud computing

A model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access
to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks,
servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned
and released with minimal management effort or service Provider
interaction. This cloud model is composed of five essential characteristics,
three service models, and four deployment models [3]

Cloud Consumer

A person or organization that maintains a business relationship with and
uses service from Cloud Providers [8]

Cloud Provider

The entity (a person or an organization) responsible for making a service
available to interested parties [8]

Digital forensics

The process used to acquire, preserve, analyze, and report on evidence
using scientific methods that are demonstrably reliable, accurate, and
repeatable such that it may be used in judicial proceedings [16]

First responder

A person who provides a rapid initial response to any IT incident or event
that may require further investigation. Examples of such events include
security threats, cyber-attacks and other illegal activities.

Forensic science

The use or application of scientific knowledge to a point of law,
especially as it applies to the investigation of crime [16]

Forensic examiner

A person who is an expert in acquiring, preserving, analyzing, and
presenting digital evidence from computers and other digital media. This
evidence may be related to computer-based and non-cyber crimes,
including security threats, cyber-attacks, and other illegal activities.

Imaging

The process used to obtain a bit by bit copy of data residing on the original
electronic media; allows the investigator to review a duplicate of the
original evidence while preserving that evidence [18]

24

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING
FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Virtual machine

A virtual data processing system that appears to be at the disposal of a
particular user but whose functions are accomplished by sharing the
resources of a real data processing system [19]

Virtualization

The simulation of the software and/or hardware upon which other software
runs; this simulated environment is called a virtual machine (Adapted
from [20])

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

25

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Annex A: Cloud Forensic Challenges
Table 1: Cloud forensic challenges
This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

The following table captures, in no particular order, the cloud-specific forensic challenges identified through extensive literature
research.
FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-01

Deletion in the
cloud

Recovering data
deleted from the
cloud (by either
the Provider,
Consumer, or
attacker) and
attributing that
data to a specific
user

Deletion in the cloud is often based on the
deletion of nodes pointing to information in
virtual instances. Pathways for retrieval of the
deleted information are dependent on cloud
Providers offering sufficiently sophisticated
mechanisms for access.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to recover deleted
data and to attribute that recovered
data to a specific user.

Recovering
Recovery of
overwritten data deleted data that
has been
overwritten by
another user in a
shared virtual
environment

Recovery of data marked as deleted (i.e., for
which the nodes pointing to it are deleted) is
difficult if the data is overwritten by another
user in a shared virtual environment.

FC-02

Once the data is recovered, it remains a
challenge to attribute specific data items to an
individual user given the fact that cloud-based
storage is a shared service in a multi-tenant
environment.

Note: Data can be overwritten by the same
user or another user. If the latter, attributing
ownership is difficult.

26

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to recover deleted
data that has been overwritten and to
attribute that recovered data to a
specific user.

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-03

Evidence
correlation

Evidence
correlation across
cloud Providers

Correlation of activities across multiple cloud
Providers is a challenge. A primary reason is
lack of interoperability.

If this challenge were overcome, the
investigator could correlate evidence
from different cloud Providers.

FC-04

Reconstructing
virtual storage

Reconstruction of In some cloud environments, imaging of
virtual storage in media has an added level of complexity that
cloud
could cause damage to the original media.
environments from
physical disk
images

If this challenge were overcome, an
investigator could reconstruct virtual
storage from all of the relevant
physical disk images, making it
easier to produce reliable forensic
evidence associated with the data
stored on the physical disks.

FC-05

Timestamp
Synchronization of Accurate time synchronization has always
synchronization timestamps
been an issue in network forensics and is made
all the more challenging in a cloud
environment since timestamps must be
synchronized across multiple physical
machines that are spread across multiple
geographical regions between the cloud
infrastructure and remote web clients,
including numerous end points.

27

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be possible to achieve
timestamp synchronization across the
cloud environment relevant to the
investigation (as may be needed for,
e.g., correlation of evidence and
timeline determination).

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

Unification of log
formats

Unified means of collecting and exporting log
data have been a traditional issue in network
forensics. This challenge is exacerbated in the
cloud because it is extremely difficult to unify
log formats or make them convertible to each
other from the massive resources available in
the cloud without a standardized interface and
export format. Furthermore, proprietary or
unusual log formats of one party can become
major roadblocks in joint investigations.

If this challenge were overcome, the
investigator could unify log formats
(as may be needed for, e.g., evidence
correlation or log analysis).

FC-06

Log format
unification

FC-07

Use of metadata Use of metadata

The use of metadata (as an authentication
If this challenge were overcome, an
method) may be in peril since common fields investigator would have access to
persistent metadata fields (as may be
(e.g., creation date, last modified date, last
accessed date, etc.) may be changed as the data needed to, e.g., highlight usage
is migrated to and within the cloud. Metadata patterns, establish timelines, event
may also be changed during the collection
correlation, and point to gaps in the
process, giving rise to both authentication
data and events).
challenges and spoliation concerns. Entities
that maintain information in the cloud should Note: authentication is not
consider the impact of the cloud on metadata, appropriate for this challenge.
understand what metadata the cloud Provider
preserves, and identify whether it can be
readily accessed for e-discovery purposes.
However, cloud computing can offer
additional metadata that would not be
available in non-cloud cases (e.g., login events
to the cloud environment, versioning
information, and file integrity data).

28

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

Capture and
timeline analysis
of logs

FC-08

Log capture

Log capture is difficult in cloud environments
and complicates forensic timeline analysis,
review, and event correlation for DHCP log
data.

If this challenge were overcome, the
investigator could perform forensic
timeline analysis of network logs
involving dynamically assigned IP
addresses.

FC-09

Interoperability No interoperability Identifying commonalities and major
issues among
among Providers differences between architectures can lead to
Providers
more efficient, effective, and consistent
collection of forensic evidence.

If this challenge were overcome,
there would be validated standards
and specifications that support
interoperable forensic techniques and
tools (i.e., interoperable across
different Providers). This would
provide more reliable, consistent, and
comprehensive forensic tools.

FC-11 8

No single
source for
criminals

If this challenge were overcome, the
investigator can link all accounts of
the same user on different clouds,
allowing for the ability to acquire,
combine, and analyze forensic data
from multiple Providers used by the
user.

No single point of
failure for
criminals

There is no single source that would allow
criminals to be caught in a straightforward
manner, no one computer in a group that holds
all the data necessary for the forensic
investigator to reconstruct the information
about the crime. A criminal organization can
choose one cloud Provider as a storage
solution, obtain compute services from a
second cloud Provider, and route all of their
communications through a third Provider (e.g.,
an email provider).

8 FC-10, FC-20, and FC-57 are deleted from the final document because the Working Group considered them to be obsolete challenges at the time of publication. Subsequent work

derived from this document used the initial FC numbers, so the initial numbering system has been maintained for compatibility and traceability.

29

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-12

Detection of the Detection of the
malicious act
malicious act

Attacks on computer systems are typically
If this challenge were overcome, it
performed through sequences of incremental
would be easier and faster to detect a
steps where each step in an attack exploits
malicious act.
what would appear to be a small vulnerability.
This steppingstone approach to exploitation
also applies to the cloud space. Forensic
investigators will not find a single ah-ha
moment where an attack is launched and a
system is compromised. Instead, they will
likely find a series of small changes made
across dozens of systems and applications that
enable an attacker to compromise the chosen
target.

FC-13

Criminals’
access to lowcost computing
power

Cloud computing offers computing power that
would otherwise be unavailable to criminals
with small budgets and/or limited resources.
Google’s AppEngine was used as a commandand-control network for a botnet in 2009.
Password cracking the cloud is already offered
as a service by one security firm, and the
Amazon EC2 computer service was used by a
security researcher to crack WiFi WPA-PSK
passwords.

The cloud offers
computing power
that would
otherwise be
unavailable to
criminals with
small budgets
and/or limited
resources

30

If this challenge were overcome,
criminals would not have easy access
to cloud computing for criminal
activities.

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-14

Real-time
investigation
intelligence
processes not
possible

Intelligence
processes for realtime investigation
are often not
possible in the
cloud environment

Data that is not stored in storage media cannot
be seized; it can only be collected in real time
by placing sensors into the real-time
environment. The manner in which such
evidence is identified must be different from
that in which evidence resides in a desktop or
within a disk. This sort of evidence must be
identified by an intelligence process and, in
many cases, special legal means must be
applied to collect it.

If this challenge were overcome, the
investigator could collect real-time
intelligence about evidence, allowing
the ability to perform real-time
forensic investigation (i.e., collect
data and forensic artifacts in a realtime, rapidly changing cloud
environment).

In most cloud environments, such intelligence
is hard to come by, and most Providers do not
want to reveal the specifics of their operations.
Such operations often change quickly with
time, and many parties may be involved. For
example, a cloud infrastructure may be
composed of leased time on hundreds of
systems around the globe, owned and operated
by scores of different Providers. With records
spread across such an infrastructure, even
knowing where to look to place sensors is
enormously problematic.

31

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-15

Malicious code Malicious code
may circumvent may circumvent
VM isolation
virtual machine
methods
isolation methods
and interfere with
the hypervisor or
other guest virtual
machines

Vulnerabilities in server virtualization allow
If this forensic challenge were
an attacker to escape from a guest virtual
overcome, it would make forensic
machine to another guest or to the hypervisor investigations easier by effectively
itself. Ensuring that a compromised virtual
tracing the movement and isolating
machine stays isolated requires comprehensive the location of malware that has
security in the hypervisor and the software that transitioned from its original
interacts with the virtual machine.
infection point to other areas of the
virtual environment.

FC-16

Errors in cloud
management
portal
configurations

Vulnerabilities in management portal
applications provided by cloud Providers may
be exploited by an unauthorized individual to
gain control, reconfigure, or delete another
cloud tenant’s resources or applications.

FC-17

Multiple venues Access to
and
computer and
geolocations
network resources
involve expanded
scope and,
possibly, more
than one venue
and geolocation

Configuration
errors in cloud
management
portals may result
in an unauthorized
user being able to
reconfigure or
delete another
user’s cloud
computing
platform

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier for investigators to
confidently attribute all changes that
originate from cloud management
portal applications to a specific user,
resulting in the investigator knowing
when an unauthorized user has
gained control, reconfigured, or
deleted another tenant’s resources or
applications.

Geolocation unknowns can impact the chain of If this challenge were overcome,
knowing the location of the venues or
custody, finding evidence, and identifying
resources that are required for access to the
geolocations would make it easier to
find the evidence and identify
system.
resources to maintain the chain of
custody.

32

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-18

Lack of
transparency

Lack of
transparency
triggers lack of
trust and
difficulties of
auditing

The cloud’s operational details (architecture
and implementation) aren’t transparent to
users.

If this challenge were overcome, the
cloud’s operational details would
become more transparent, making it
easier to collect forensic evidence
that is accurate, complete, traceable,
auditable, and forensically sound.

FC-19

Criminals can
hide in the
cloud

The distributed
nature of cloud
computing enables
a criminal
organization to
maintain small
cells of operation
with no one cell
knowing the
identity of any
others

Data partitioning allows each cell in the
criminal organization to preserve its
anonymity while still sharing information on
likely victims and the results of any criminal
activities. Thus, individual members of such
an organization may be unaware of the
identities of other members.

If this challenge were overcome,
cells of the criminal organizations
would be discoverable, making it
easier for the forensic investigator to
identify forensic evidence.

33

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-21 9

Potential
evidence
segregation

Segregation of
potential evidence
in a multi-tenant
system

Segregation of forensic data in an
infrastructure shared by multiple users (i.e.,
multi-tenant environment) is needed.
Technologies used for provisioning and
deprovisioning resources are constantly being
improved. It is a challenge for cloud service
Providers and law enforcement agencies to
segregate resources during investigations
without breaching the confidentiality of other
tenants who share the infrastructure.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier for the investigator
to access forensic evidence of one
tenant in a way that preserves the
confidentiality/privacy of other
tenants.

FC-22

Boundaries

Boundaries

Because of the elastic nature of cloud
computing and the inherent complications of
multi-tenant environments, system boundaries
are often difficult to define.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to focus the scope of
the investigation within appropriate
boundaries and ensure that the
forensic information collected is
relevant to the investigation.

FC-23

Secure
provenance

Secure provenance Provenance is a record of the history of an
item. In the context of cloud computing,
secure provenance refers to establishing the
chronology of ownership, custody, or location
of data. Establishing these characteristics in a
cloud environment is challenging due to multitenancy and the elastic nature of the cloud.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier for the investigator
to guarantee the ownership, custody,
location, or actions taken on forensic
evidence.

9 FC-10, FC-20, and FC-57 are deleted from the final document because the Working Group considered them to be obsolete challenges at the time of publication. Subsequent work

derived from this document used the initial FC numbers, so the initial numbering system has been maintained for compatibility and traceability.

34

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

FC-24

Data chain of
custody

Chain of custody
of data

FC-25

Decreased
Decreased access
access and data and control of data
control
at all levels by
cloud Consumers

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

Because of the distributed, multi-layered
If this challenge were overcome, it
nature of cloud computing, the chain of
would be easier for the investigator
custody of data may be impossible to verify.
to verify who had continuous
Without strict controls, it may be impossible to ownership and access to forensic
determine exactly where the data was stored,
evidence.
who had access to it, and whether leakage or
contamination of the data was possible. If data
is stored in a cloud to which multiple users and
cloud service Providers potentially have
access, associating the data to the subject
beyond a reasonable doubt is a challenge.
In every combination of cloud service and
deployment models, the cloud Consumer faces
the challenge of decreased access to forensic
data. Decreased access to forensic data means
that cloud Consumers generally have little or
no control—or even knowledge—of the
physical locations of their data. In fact, they
may only be able to specify location at a high
level of abstraction, typically as an object or
container. Cloud Providers abstract data
locations from Consumers to facilitate data
movement and replication.

35

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier for investigators who
work through cloud Consumer
accounts to know and obtain access
to physical locations of data in these
accounts.

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-26

Chain of
dependencies

Chain of
dependencies in
multiple cloud
systems

FC-27

Locating
evidence

Locating evidence E-discovery is a critical component in cloud
in a large and
computing and essential for locating data that
changing system
may be requested in a subpoena. However, the
time frame for responses and the thoroughness
of the results are questionable due to the lack
of knowledge of all locations of data storage.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to quickly locate
relevant data in response to an ediscovery request.

FC-28

Data location

Data location

If this challenge were overcome, data
locations in multiple data centers
would be discoverable, thus making
it easier to retrieve that data.

Cloud Providers and most cloud applications
If this challenge were overcome, it
often have dependencies on other cloud
would be easier for investigators to
Providers. For example, a cloud Provider that obtain evidence in situations
provides an email application (SaaS) may
involving multiple chains of
depend on a third-party Provider to host log
dependencies through multiple cloud
systems.
files (i.e., PaaS), which in turn may rely on a
partner who provides the infrastructure to store
log files (IaaS). A cloud forensic investigation
thus requires investigations of each individual
link in the dependency chain.

There are many uncertainties in dealing with
transparency in the cloud and distribution
boundaries for retrieval due to multiple tenants
in multiple data centers.

36

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-29

Imaging,
isolating, and
collecting data

Locating and
collecting cloudbased data for
forensic
investigations

The mirroring of large volumes of data over
multiple machines in different jurisdictions
and the lack of transparent, real-time
information about data locations introduce
difficulties in collecting data for forensic
investigations. Complicating this challenge is
the fact that the cloud Application
Programming Interfaces (APIs) are often the
only way to access certain data and metadata,
and these APIs are not always developed with
forensic use in mind.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to locate and collect
constantly moving cloud-based data
for forensic investigations.

FC-30

Data available
for a limited
time

Data associated
with deallocated
virtual machine
(VM) instances
may only be
available for a
limited time

It is difficult to identify the data associated
If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to collect evidential
with removed VM instances. If a new VM
instance is created and either compromised or information from a deallocated VM.
used to attack, evidential traces may be
available in the VM. If the VM instance is then
deallocated, investigators would not know
whether evidential traces or the entire VM
instance could be recovered.

FC-31

Locating
storage media

Identifying storage In the cloud, a computer instance may not
media where
have local persistent storage since all storage
artifacts, log files, occurs through an object store held remotely.
and other evidence
may be found

37

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to identify remote
storage media where relevant
evidence may be found.

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-32

Evidence
identification

Sources/traces of
evidence are
generated
differently
compared to noncloud
environments and
pose challenges
for evidence
identification

The first step in gathering evidence is
identifying possible sources of evidence for
collection. It is fairly common that identified
evidence includes too little or too much
information. If too much is identified, then
court-mandated search and seizure limitations
may be exceeded. If too little is identified,
exculpatory or inculpatory evidence may be
missed. Commonly missed evidence include
network logs from related network
components. In most cloud computing
environments, most of the evidence and, in
particular, most of the redundant traces are
either not available or are not generated or
stored in the same way as they would be in
traditional non-cloud environments. User
authentication and authorization data and
procedures are typically in the application
rather than in the operating system, so records
tend to be limited to whatever the application
designer decided to do.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to locate all relevant
forensic data in response to any
forensic request.

FC-33

Dynamic
storage

Dynamic storage

Some cloud Providers dynamically allocate
If this challenge were overcome, it
storage based on the current needs of the user. would be easier to recover deleted
As data is deleted from the system, the storage data and overwritten deleted data.
is re-allocated to optimize data reads and
storage use.

38

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-34

Live forensics

Live forensics is
common in cloud
environments, but
many challenges
remain

When evidence is collected in a cloud
environment, the suspect system is still
running, and data is likely changing as it is
being collected. Therefore, after acquisition, it
is impossible for a third party to verify that the
data collected is correct because the data is no
longer the same as it was at the time of
acquisition. When conducting live data
forensics, the processes used in data
acquisition will result in changes to the
system. In order to collect volatile evidence,
the suspect computer must remain on, and the
suspect operating system must be used to
access the needed data. For example, when
retrieving information from RAM, a program
must be loaded into the running memory,
thereby changing its contents. Even inserting a
USB key into a running suspect system will
alter the system. Therefore, live data forensics
usually rely on the suspect system, which [21]
claims cannot be trusted. Rootkits or other
malware in the suspect system can provide
various anti-forensic functions, resulting in
unreliable evidence [22]. Additionally, data
residing in a VM is volatile since after
terminating a VM, all the data may be lost.
Volatile data of a VM includes all of the logs
stored in that VM (e.g., SysLog, registry logs,
and network logs).

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to establish the
veracity and reliability of data
collected in a volatile state from a
live, running cloud computing
system.

39

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Challenge

Description

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-35

Resource
abstraction

Resource
abstraction

FC-36

Application
details are
unavailable

Private and
For example, in a particular criminal case
confidential details involving email through cloud service
of cloud-based
Providers, the details of how drafts are turned
software/applicati into deliverable messages were unavailable,
leading to an inability to prove whether or not
ons used to
produce records
a draft was ever sent (and, more obviously,
are typically
whether it was ever transmitted or received).
unavailable to the
investigator

Result of Overcoming Challenge

In cloud computing, abstract resources are
If this challenge were overcome, it
made available to cloud Consumers. This is
would make the collection of
often desirable to Consumers who do not want evidence in forensic investigations
to know how the cloud is implemented, but the easier by enabling the investigator to
lack of transparency makes forensics
fully understand (with confidence) all
challenging. The forensic investigator may
of the logical and physical aspects of
need to know what hardware, hypervisor, or
the system.
file system is used in order to accurately
understand the environment.

40

If this challenge were overcome, the
investigator would have access to the
details of application processes, thus
making it easier to obtain relevant
evidence.

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

Relevant forensic information is often located
in places not immediately evident from the
original crime scene. In traditional digital
forensics, for cases where evidence is stored
for long periods and can be identified as
missing in a timely fashion, the problem can
usually be mitigated by additional collection.
But in cloud environments, such collection is
often infeasible since specific locations of
content are unknown, the volumes may be
very high, and the protocols and mechanisms
used to exchange information may be nonstandard and poorly or not documented.

If this challenge were overcome,
collecting additional evidence after
initial evidence collection or in areas
not immediately evident from the
original crime scene would be easier
to perform.

FC-37

Additional
evidence
collection

Additional
collection is often
infeasible in the
cloud

FC-38

Imaging the
cloud

Imaging the cloud Imaging all evidence in the cloud is
If this challenge were overcome, it
impractical while partial imaging may have
would make forensic investigations
legal implications in the presentation to the
easier by simplifying the process for
court. This leads to the suggestion that forensic cloud imaging while also protecting
acquisition processes and tools should be an
the admissibility of evidence by
establishing greater confidence in the
integrated part of the cloud functionality,
instead of a bolt-on service.
imaging process.

FC-39

Selective data
acquisition

Selective data
acquisition

Selective data acquisition implies a
preliminary analysis or some prior knowledge
to reduce the overall dataset in which an
investigator is interested. Some investigators
focus on data sources that they believe are
likely to provide the richest sources of
information, but justifiable exclusion remains
a challenge.

41

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to use selective data
acquisition techniques (thus saving
time and resources) to acquire
relevant forensic data.

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

FC-40

Cryptographic
key
management

FC-41

Ambiguous
Ambiguous trust
trust boundaries boundaries
between users can
cause questionable
data integrity

FC-42

Data integrity
and evidence
preservation

Description

Cryptographic key Difficulties in identifying, maintaining, and
management
effectively recovering keys makes it easier to
lose the ability to decrypt forensic data stored
in the cloud.

Result of Overcoming Challenge
If this challenge were overcome, it
would make forensic investigations
easier by preserving cryptographic
keys that are required in order to
access encrypted forensic evidence.

The use of cloud services, especially of multitenant environments, may increase risk to the
integrity of data, both at rest and during
processing.

If this challenge were overcome,
forensic data would be more reliable,
complete, and attributable to the
correct owner due to better trust
boundaries between users.

Responsibility for Digital evidence that is presented in court is
quality of
admitted or rejected based on the relative
evidence, evidence weights of probative and prejudicial value.
admissibility,
Faults can occur intentionally or accidentally
faults and failures and consist of missed content, contextual
in data integrity,
information, meaning of content, process
and digital
elements, relationships, ordering, timing,
preservation is
location, corroborating content, consistencies,
shared among
and inconsistencies. In the cloud, the faults
multiple Actors,
may extend to multiple computers in multiple
and the
locations under the control of multiple parties.
opportunities for
Thus, opportunities for faults and failures are
such faults and
extended in the cloud.
failures are higher
in the cloud
context

If this challenge were overcome, the
faults and failures that contribute to
the quality and integrity of evidence
would decrease in the context of
multiple parties, multiple computers,
multiple locations, etc.

42

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

FC-43

Root of trust

Root of trust

Cloud implementations have multiple layers of If this challenge were overcome, the
abstraction, from hardware to virtualization to integrity and trustworthiness of
guest operating systems. The integrity and
forensic data would be improved in
trustworthiness of forensic data is dependent
the context of multiple layers of
on the cumulative trustworthiness of the layers cloud abstraction and the cumulative
that could potentially manipulate or
trustworthiness of the layers.
compromise data integrity. Further, users must
now trust cloud Providers unless integrity can
be guaranteed through some other means (e.g.
cryptographic hashes, hardware roots of trust,
etc.).

FC-44

Competence
and
trustworthiness

Competence and
trustworthiness of
the cloud Provider
as an effective,
immediate first
responder

When an incident occurs on the side of the
If this challenge were overcome, it
would make forensic investigations
cloud Provider, the Provider may be more
easier by ensuring that cloud
concerned with restoring service than with
preserving evidence. Further, the Provider may Providers treat a compromised cloud
begin its own investigation into an incident
environment as a crime scene in
without taking proper precautions to ensure the order to preserve the veracity,
integrity of potential evidence. In more severe integrity, and admissibility of
cases, Providers may not report or cooperate in essential forensic evidence.
the investigation of incidents for fear of
reputational damage.

FC-45

Missing terms
in contract or
SLA

Missing terms in
Requirements that the cloud Provider maintain
contract or Service and/or produce pertinent evidence within
Level Agreement specified time constraints may not be
explicitly stated in the agreement.

43

Result of Overcoming Challenge

If this challenge were overcome, it
would make forensic investigations
easier by clearly delineating cloud
Provider responsibilities for
preserving and providing timely
access to relevant forensic
information.

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-46

Limited
investigative
power

FC-47

FC-48

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

In civil cases, there may be limited
investigative power given to investigators or
consulting firms to legally obtain data under
their respective jurisdictions.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would improve the ability of
investigators to obtain forensic data
in varying jurisdictions.

Reliance on
Reliance on cloud
cloud Providers Providers

Although data acquisition may frequently be
done without assistance from the cloud
Provider (e.g., with user credentials), it often
relies on the cooperation of cloud Providers,
typically in compliance with legal processes.
However, since cooperation may be limited by
the Provider’s resources and number of
employees, an ever-increasing number of
cooperation requests becomes a problem.

If this challenge were overcome,
cloud Providers would be better
equipped, in terms of physical and
human resources, to provide
assistance to forensic investigators in
forensic data collection.

Physical data
location

Because physical locations of data are
unknown (due in part to lack of local storage
and access to the hardware), there are
difficulties in specifying and responding to
subpoenas. This can inhibit collection of
evidence by a first responder, particularly
dynamic evidence. Therefore, acquisition of
forensic images is preferred over seizure of
servers from a data center, which is not
feasible due to the conflict with privacy rights
of other tenants.

If this challenge were overcome,
physical data locations would be
known, making it easier to specify
subpoenas and collect complete
evidence.

Limited
investigative
power

Physical data
location

44

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-49

Port protection

Port protection

Because of the distributed nature of the cloud
computing environment, identifying and
accessing the ports to scan using SPAN or
TAP is a challenge.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier for a forensic
investigator to collect network traffic,
which could contain relevant forensic
evidence, in real time.

FC-50

Transfer
protocol

Transfer protocol

TCP/IP v6 dumps, Windows dumps, and TCP
segment deciphering are important forensic
tools that may be unavailable in some cloud
environments.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier for a forensic
investigator to have access to dumps
of TCP/IP network traffic, which
could contain relevant forensic
artifacts.

FC-51

e-discovery

e-discovery

The location of data in cloud environments is If this challenge were overcome,
often uncertain. Therefore, completing ecompletion of the e-discovery request
discovery requests within a reasonable
in a reasonable time frame would be
timeframe, as well as assuring that the requests assured.
have been completed, is often a challenge.

45

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-52

Lack of
international
agreements &
laws

Lack of
international
agreements and
laws

There is a lack of international collaboration
and legislative mechanisms in cross-nation
data access and exchange.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier for the investigator
to access and exchange data across
international boundaries.

FC-53

International
cloud services

Lack of definition
of the scope for
acquiring data that
is stored on a
cloud service in a
different country
from that of the
investigator

If the data is accessible, an investigator may
save a considerable amount of time by
acquiring the data from the connected service
rather than waiting for international requests.
However, authority on this matter is not
always clear. A lack of definition of the scope
of the acquisition of data in a foreign country
via remote connections depends on the laws
and regulations of the host country.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier and more
straightforward for investigators to
obtain live, real-time data on
international cloud services.

This challenge limits the investigator’s ability
to begin a live analysis of the suspect system.
Requiring a formal international request to
access data from another country may result in
significant delays.

46

NISTIR 8006

FC ID
FC-54

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title
Jurisdiction

Challenge
Jurisdiction

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

Many cloud systems operate in multiple
countries and regions, and each jurisdiction
has specific legal frameworks governing the
release, protection, and acceptable use of data.
While various international bodies have
attempted to adopt treaties for law
enforcement to collect and exchange forensic
data, there is no universal agreement between
countries that addresses jurisdictional issues
when cloud data is stored in multiple
countries.

If this challenge were overcome,
there would be mechanisms in place
that provide agreements between
jurisdictions, thereby empowering
investigators and law enforcement
officers to obtain necessary data
pertaining to their investigations.

47

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-55

International
International
communication communication

Cloud computing blurs physical, policy, and
jurisdictional boundaries. However, law
enforcement at a global level has yet to find
effective, timely, and efficient international
communication and cooperation channels.
Conferences such as the International
Symposium on Cybercrime Response
specifically discuss international law
enforcement communication and collaboration
efforts. Global law enforcement
communication channels, such as
INTERPOL’s I-24/7 network or the G8 24/7
network, connect many countries but are
limited by their structure and bureaucracy.
Many officers have found the global networks
to be somewhat effective if the request is not
overly urgent. However, these networks have
failed to address real-time requests for help
from countries under DDoS attack. Often, law
enforcement prefers faster, informal channels
to begin an international investigation rather
than traversing such networks.

If this challenge were overcome,
investigators would achieve timely
and effective communication and
cooperation at an international level.

FC-56

Confidentiality
and PII

Cloud computing has significant implications
for the privacy of personal information as well
as for the confidentiality of business and
governmental information. There is a lack of
legislative mechanisms facilitating evidence
retrieval involving confidential data.

If this challenge were overcome,
access to confidential data pertaining
to investigations would be available
to investigators while also
maintaining the privacy and
confidentiality of all other tenants
and businesses.

Concern for
confidentiality and
personally
identifiable
information (PII)

48

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-58 10 Identifying
account owner

Role management Insufficient granularity of user/process
makes it difficult identities and/or the lack of policy
to identify suspect enforcement requiring the use of unique
identities may inhibit the ability to positively
identify a subject.

If this challenge were overcome, the
investigator could link all of an
individual’s accounts and positively
identify the person as the owner of
the account.

FC-59

Criminals can
create entire
fictitious identities
online to link to
their cloud
accounts, creating
excess noise’ for
the forensic
investigator to
analyze

If this challenge were overcome, the
investigator could link all of the
accounts of an individual and
positively identify the real person the owner of the account.

Fictitious
identities

Most cloud Providers will require a name,
address, and credit card to register an account.
A criminal can trivially obtain credit card
numbers and create fake profiles on existing
legitimate social media websites to make
his/her cloud identity appear to have a
corresponding equivalent in the real world. A
forensic investigator is then faced with the
daunting challenge of obtaining data on the
criminal identity from multiple online entities,
many of which are geographically spread
around the world.

10 FC-10, FC-20, and FC-57 are deleted from the final document because the Working Group considered them to be obsolete challenges at the time of publication. Subsequent

work derived from this document used the initial FC numbers, so the initial numbering system has been maintained for compatibility and traceability.

49

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-60

Decoupling
user credentials
& physical
location

Decoupling
between cloud
user credentials
and physical users

FC-61

Authentication
and access
control

Authentication and Access control in cloud environments is
access control
somewhat difficult and may not meet data
protection regulations.

If this challenge were overcome, it
would be easier to implement data
protection regulations that allow
forensic investigators to determine
whether the account was used by
authorized or unauthorized entities.

FC-62

Testability,
validation, and
scientific
principles not
standardized

Testability,
validation, and
scientific
principles for
cloud forensics
tools have not
been standardized
across the industry

If this challenge were overcome,
there would be more forensic
techniques, tools, and methods
validated for accuracy and
repeatability. The result would be
accurate and repeatable forensic
methods that could be used by the
investigator.

Due to the decoupling between cloud user
If the challenge were overcome,
credentials and physical users, network-type
coupling of the cloud username and
metadata plays a significant role in the data
credentials to the physical person
acquisition process. A challenge is how to bind using the account would be resolved.
a cloud username to a physical entity in order In this way, the forensic investigator
could verify the physical person
to prove the physical ownership of the data
using the username and the
attributed to the cloud username.
credentials.

While various countries and standards bodies
have attempted to create standards for
computer-based forensic tools, test and
validation processes for cloud forensic
hardware, software, policies, and techniques
have not been standardized. This lack of
standardization brings into question the
reliability and forensic soundness of the
evidence acquired by these tools.

50

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge
If this challenge were overcome,
there would be more validated
standard procedures and best
practices, and it would be easier to
perform sound forensic investigations
that can be defended in courts.

FC-63

Lack of
standard
processes &
models

Lack of standard
processes and
models

There is no single process for digital forensics.
Although various process models have been
proposed, there is no single accepted standard,
and the majority of organizations are creating
their own SOPs, which may or may not be
based on an existing process model.

FC-64

Limited
knowledge of
logs and
records

Custodians and
individuals
responsible for
record keeping in
cloud Provider
companies might
have limited
knowledge of
which logs and
records might be
sought after as
evidence

Unlike a traditional computing environment to If this challenge were overcome,
which the forensic examiner might have access custodians in cloud Provider
to perform experiments, in the cloud, the
companies would have adequate
details of what logs are produced, what other knowledge about forensically
records are produced and/or kept, and where
meaningful data (logs and records) in
they might be found are opaque except
their cloud systems and the relevance
through the testimony of representatives of the of such data to forensic
Provider. In many cases, these individuals are investigations, thus making it easier
custodians of the records but do not have
to aggregate all forensic artifacts
detailed knowledge of technologies or actual
pertaining to an investigation.
records that might be found if sought after.
Indeed, companies benefit from not keeping
such records or having custodians with only
limited knowledge.

51

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Challenge

Description

Result of Overcoming Challenge

FC-65

Cloud training
for
investigators

Lack of training
materials that
educate
investigators on
cloud computing
technology and
cloud forensic
operating policies
and procedures

Most digital forensic training materials are
outdated and not applicable to cloud
environments. The lack of knowledge about
cloud technology may interfere with remote
investigations where systems are not
physically accessible and where there is an
absence of proper tools to effectively
investigate the cloud computing environment.
Operating system virtualization permits the
implementation of many different operating
systems that share the same underlying
platform resources. This includes the sharing
of operating system and security software as
well as hardware. Moreover, few standard
operating policies are in place for cloud
forensics, which makes the nature of the
approach more trial and error than scientific.

If the challenge were overcome,
forensic investigators would have
better training and the necessary
cloud training materials to make their
investigations easier and more sound.

52

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Table 2: Categorization of cloud forensic challenges
Legend:
OD = On-demand self-service
BNA = Broad network access
RP = Resource pooling
RE = Rapid elasticity
MS = Measured service

Challenge/Functional-Capabilities Correlation:
S = Specific
Q = Quasi
G = Generic

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Deletion in the
cloud

RP/MS

S (specific to capabilities where stored
data needs to be both recovered and
attributed to a user; also deals with a
narrow aspect of forensics, namely
deletion and attribution)

FC-02

Recovering
overwritten data

OD/BNA/RP/RE S (specific to capabilities where stored
data needs to be both recovered and
attributed to a user; also deals with a
narrow aspect of forensics, namely
deletion and attribution)

FC-03

Evidence
correlation

RE

FC ID

Short Title

FC-01

S (specific to when evidence
correlation across multiple Providers
is involved)

53

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Architecture

Architecture

Analysis

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Cloud Essential Characteristics:

Data
Collection
(Data
Recovery)

[23]

Data
Collection
(Data
Recovery)

[24],
[4],
[25],
[26]

N/A

[24],
[4],
[27],
[28]

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-04

Reconstructing
virtual storage

OD/RP/RE

Q (can apply to many but not most or
all capabilities)

Analysis

Incident First
Responders
(Reconstructio
n)

[4],
[29],
[25]

FC-05

Timestamp
synchronization

RP/RE/MS

S (only applies when multiple time
sources are involved)

Analysis
(Metadata
Logs)

N/A

[24],
[4],
[30],
[31],
[32],
[33]

FC-06

Log format
unification

RP/RE/MS

Q (applies when logs are involved,
which is for many capabilities but not
all or most)

Analysis
(Metadata
Logs)

N/A

[24],
[4],
[31],
[28],
[34]

54

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-07

Use of metadata

FC-08

FC-09

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

OD/BNA/RP/RE Q (applies only where metadata are
involved and the persistence thereof is
/MS
an issue)

Analysis
(Metadata)

N/A

[27],
[35]

Log capture

OD/BNA/RP/RE S (only applies to network logs
/MS
involving dynamically assigned IP
addresses)

Analysis
(Metadata)

N/A

[24],
[4],
[34]

Interoperability
issues among
Providers

RE

Architecture

Standards
[24],
(Interoperabilit [4],
y)
[29],
[36],
[37],
[38]

G (applies to most capabilities)

55

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-11

No single source
for criminals

FC-12

Detection of the
malicious act

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

OD/BNA/RP/RE S (only applies when multiple clouds
are involved)

Architecture

Data
Collection

[39],
[40]

OD/BNA/RP/RE Q (applicability is limited to
capabilities that may be vulnerable to
steppingstone attacks)

Architecture

N/A

[39],
[41],
[15]

56

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-13

Criminals access
to low cost
computing power

FC-14

Real-time
investigation
intelligence
processes not
possible

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

OD/BNA/RP/RE G
/MS

Architecture

N/A

[39],
[42]

OD/BNA/RP/RE S (only applies when real-time
forensics are employed)

Architecture

N/A

[24],
[4],
[29],
[31],
[36],
[43],
[44]

57

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-15

Malicious code
may circumvent
VM isolation
methods

RP

S (applies only to hypervisor or guestto-guest attacks)

Architecture

Anti-Forensics

[4],
[29],
[45],
[25],
[26],
[46]

FC-16

Errors in cloud
RP/MS
management portal
configurations

S (applies only to hypervisor
management portal attacks)

Architecture
(MultiTenancy)

Role
Management
(Identity
Management)

FC-17

Multiple venues
and geolocations

Architecture

Data
Collection

BNA/RP/RE/MS G (forensics on most capabilities
involves clouds with multiple
geolocations)

58

[24],
[4],
[29],
[30],
[31],
[36],
[32],
[47],
[15]

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

G (applies to most capabilities)

FC-18

Lack of
transparency

OD/RP/RE/MS

Architecture

Data
Collection

[24],
[4],
[29],
[31],
[43],
[48],
[49]

FC-19

Criminals can hide
in cloud

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (applies the same way to most
Architecture
capabilities regardless of the nature of
the capability; however, it only applies
when the attack is by a cell-based
criminal organization)

Legal
(Contract /
SLA)

[39]

OD/RP/RE

Data
Collection

FC-21

Potential evidence
segregation

G (applies the same way to most
capabilities regardless of the nature of
the capability)

59

Architecture
(Data
Segregation)
(MultiTenancy)

Role
Management
(Identity
Management)
[24],
[4],
[29],
[36],
[43],
[50],
[51]

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-22

Boundaries

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (applies the same way to most
capabilities regardless of the nature of
the capability)

Architecture
(MultiTenancy)

Data
Collection

[48]

FC-23

Secure provenance

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (applies the same way to most
capabilities regardless of the nature of
the capability)

Architecture
(Provenance)

N/A

[23]

FC-24

Data chain of
custody

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (applies the same way to most
/MS
capabilities regardless of the nature of
the capability)

Architecture
(Provenance)

N/A

[24],
[4],
[29],
[31],
[36],
[32],
[52],
[43]

60

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-25

Decreased access
and data control

FC-26

Chain of
dependencies

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (applies to most capabilities)
/MS

Data
Collection

N/A

[24],
[4],
[31],
[50],
[53]

OD/BNA/RP/RE Q (applies only to capabilities that
/MS
could be spread across multiple
Providers, usually involving
applications [e.g., Netflix or
Facebook])

Data
Collection

N/A

[24],
[4],
[31]

61

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-27

Locating evidence

FC-28

Data location

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

OD/BNA/RE/RP S (deals with e-discovery)
/MS

Data
Collection

N/A

[24],
[4],
[29],
[31],
[32],
[54],
[27],
[48],
[44],
[55]

OD/RP/RE/MS

Data
Collection

N/A

[24],
[4],
[29],
[30],
[31],
[32],
[47],
[45],
[54],
[52],
[27],
[25],
[43],
[55]

G (applies in much the same way
regardless of the nature of the
capability being investigated)

62

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-29

Imaging, isolating,
and collecting data

FC-30

FC-31

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (deals with any data in files and
databases when system incorporates
/MS
mirroring)

Data
Collection

N/A

[24],
[4],
[56]

Data available for
a limited time

OD/BNA/RP/RE S (deals specifically with deallocated
/MS
VMs and recovery of information
from them)

Data
Collection

N/A

[25],
[57],
[6]

Locating storage
media

OD/BNA/RP/RE Q (deals with remote storage media,
/MS
which applies to many capabilities)

Data
Collection

N/A

[24],
[4],
[29],
[32],
[47],
[54],
[52],
[27],
[25]

63

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-32

Evidence
identification

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (identifying evidence applicable
everywhere)
/MS

Data
Collection

N/A

[32],
[50],
[58],
[6]

FC-33

Dynamic storage

OD/BNA/RP/RE S (refers specifically to recovering
deleted data)
/MS

Data
Collection

N/A

[48],
[59]

64

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-34

Live forensics

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

OD/BNA/RP/RE S (deals specifically with volatile data
and live forensics)
/MS

65

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

Data
Collection

Architecture

[24],
[4],
[29],
[31],
[36],
[43],
[44],
[60]

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-35

Resource
abstraction

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (the need to know information
about the cloud system to do forensics
/MS
applies generically)

Data
Collection

Architecture

[49],
[6]

FC-36

Application details
are unavailable

MS

S (limited to applications)

Data
Collection

Architecture

[32]

FC-37

Additional
evidence
collection

OD/RP/RE/MS

G (also same issue in non-cloud)

Data
Collection

Architecture

[32],
[49]

66

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-38

Imaging the cloud

FC-39

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

OD/BNA/RP/RE Q (applies to imaging, which is not
general but can be more broad than
/MS
specific)

Data
Collection

Architecture

[24],
[4],
[30],
[45],
[25],
[50],
[60]

Selective data
acquisition

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (could apply to almost any
/MS
capability)

Data
Collection

Incident First
Responders

[61],
[62]

FC-40

Cryptographic key
management

OD/BNA/RP/RE S
/MS

Data
Collection

Legal
(Privacy)

[24],
[4],
[29],
[31],
[43],
[63]

FC-41

Ambiguous trust
boundaries

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (many ways that boundary of trust
/MS
can be ambiguous)

Data
Collection
(Data
Integrity)

N/A

[25],
[64],
[60]

67

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-42

Data integrity and
evidence
preservation

FC-43

Root of trust

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (this can apply to nearly any
capability with very few exceptions)
/MS

Data
Collection
(Data
Integrity)

Architecture

[32],
[11]

OD/BNA/RP/RE Q (only applies to capabilities that are
/MS
affected by this abstraction)

Data
Collection
(Data
Integrity)

Legal

[62],
[48],
[64],
[60]

68

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-44

Competence and
trustworthiness

OD/BNA/RE

G (could apply to almost any
capability)

Incident First
Responders

Legal
(Contract /
SLA)

[62],
[48],
[64],
[65],
[50],
[60]

FC-45

Missing terms in
contract or SLA

OD/BNA/RP/RE Q (applicable only to capabilities
/MS
where forensic data can be provided
by Provider)

Legal
(Contract /
SLA)

N/A

[24],
[4],
[31],
[66]

FC-46

Limited
investigative
power

OD/BNA/RP/RE Q (only applicable where jurisdiction
is an issue; when it is an issue, this is
generic)

Legal

N/A

[24],
[4],
[54],
[55]

FC-47

Reliance on cloud
Providers

RP/RE/MS

Legal

N/A

[24],
[4],
[29],
[30],
[54],
[52],
[62],
[53]

G (could apply to almost any
capability)

69

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

S (only applies where physical
location is relevant and subpoenas are
involved)

Legal

N/A

[24],
[4],
[29],
[31],
[47]

Legal

Data
Collection

FC-48

Physical data
location

RE

FC-49

Port protection

BNA/RP/RE/MS S (very specific)

70

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Short Title

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

FC-50

Transfer protocol

BNA/MS

S (same as FC49)

Legal

Data
Collection

FC-51

e-discovery

OD/BNA/RP/RE S (applies to e-discovery only)
/MS

Legal

Data
Collection

[24],
[4],
[27],
[55]

FC-52

Lack of
OD/BNA/RP/RE Q (applicable only when international
international
/MS
boundaries are an issue but generic
agreements & laws
otherwise)

Legal
(Jurisdiction)

N/A

[24],
[4],
[36],
[52],
[67]

FC-53

International cloud
services

Legal
(Jurisdiction)

N/A

[62]

BNA/RP/RE/MS S (only applies for live, real-time data
across international boundaries)

71

References

FC ID

FC ID

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC-54

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Jurisdiction

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

RP

Q (only applies when jurisdiction is an
issue, and then it is generic)

Legal
(Jurisdiction)

N/A

[24],
[4],
[29],
[30],
[31],
[36],
[32],
[47],
[54],
[52],
[43],
[61],
[55],
[68]

72

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-55

International
communication

FC-56

Confidentiality
and PII

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

OD/BNA/RP/RE Q (applicable only when international
boundaries are an issue but generic
/MS
otherwise)

Legal
(Jurisdiction)

N/A

[24],
[4],
[29],
[31],
[32],
[47],
[52],
[61],
[69]

RP/MS

Legal
(Privacy)

N/A

[36],
[52],
[70]

S (limited to PII, confidential, or
sensitive data)

73

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

FC ID

Short Title

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

FC-58

Identifying
account owner

FC-59

Fictitious identities OD/BNA

FC-60

Decoupling user
credentials &
physical location

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Role
Management
(Identity
Management)

N/A

[24],
[4],
[31],
[43]

S (applicable only to capabilities
which are concerned with account
ownership)

Role
Management
(Identity
Management)

N/A

S (applicable only to capabilities
which are concerned with account
ownership)

Role
Management
(Identity
Management)

N/A

OD/BNA/RP/RE S (applicable only to capabilities
which are concerned with account
/MS
ownership)

BNA

74

[25]

FC ID

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Short Title

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

S (applicable only to capabilities
which are concerned with data
classification and access control)

Role
Management
(Identity
Management)

N/A

[24],
[4],
[29],
[31],
[43],
[48]

FC-61

Authentication and RP
access control

FC-62

Testability,
validation, and
scientific
principles not
standardized

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (applies to most capabilities)
/MS

Standards

N/A

FC-63

Lack of standard
processes &
models

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (applies to most capabilities)
/MS

Standards
(No Single
Process)

N/A

75

[24],
[4],
[36],
[47],
[43],
[61]

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Relevance of
Essential Cloud
Characteristics

Labeling of Challenge/FunctionalCapabilities Correlation

Primary
Category
(Subcategory)

Related
Category
(Subcategory)

References

NISTIR 8006

FC ID

Short Title

FC-64

Limited
knowledge of logs
and records

MS

Q (applies to many capabilities but not
all or most [e.g., not as much
applicability to BOSS])

Training

N/A

[71]

FC-65

Cloud training for
investigators

OD/BNA/RP/RE G (applies to most capabilities)
/MS

Training
(Qualification
and
Certification)

Standards
(No Single
Process)

[24],
[4],
[31],
[32]

76

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Annex B: CSA’s Enterprise Architecture (TCI v2.0)
This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

77

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES
Figure 1: CSA’s Enterprise Architecture

Annex C: Mind Maps

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006

Annex C.1: Categories and Subcategories

Figure 2: Mind Map – Categories and Subcategories

78

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Annex C.2: Primary Categories

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006
Figure 3: Mind Map – Primary Categories

79

NISTIR 8006

NIST CLOUD COMPUTING FORENSIC SCIENCE CHALLENGES

Annex C.3: Related Categories

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8006
Figure 4: Mind Map – Related Categories

80

