Chapter 16

Navigation
Introduction
This chapter provides an introduction to cross-country
flying under visual flight rules (VFR). It contains practical
information for planning and executing cross-country flights
for the beginning pilot.

Air navigation is the process of piloting an aircraft from
one geographic position to another while monitoring one’s
position as the flight progresses. It introduces the need for
planning, which includes plotting the course on an aeronautical
chart, selecting checkpoints, measuring distances, obtaining
pertinent weather information, and computing flight time,
headings, and fuel requirements. The methods used in this
chapter include pilotage—navigating by reference to visible
landmarks, dead reckoning—computations of direction and
distance from a known position, and radio navigation—by
use of radio aids.




                                                                  16-1
Aeronautical Charts                                               The charts provide an abundance of information, including
                                                                  airport data, navigational aids, airspace, and topography.
An aeronautical chart is the road map for a pilot flying under
                                                                  Figure 16-1 is an excerpt from the legend of a sectional
VFR. The chart provides information that allows pilots to track
                                                                  chart. By referring to the chart legend, a pilot can interpret
their position and provides available information that enhances
                                                                  most of the information on the chart. A pilot should also
safety. The three aeronautical charts used by VFR pilots are:
                                                                  check the chart for other legend information, which includes
  •    Sectional                                                  air traffic control (ATC) frequencies and information on
  •    VFR Terminal Area                                          airspace. These charts are revised semiannually except for
                                                                  some areas outside the conterminous United States where
  •    World Aeronautical
                                                                  they are revised annually.
A free catalog listing aeronautical charts and related
                                                                  VFR Terminal Area Charts
publications including prices and instructions for ordering is
                                                                  VFR terminal area charts are helpful when flying in or near
available at the Aeronautical Navigation Products website:
                                                                  Class B airspace. They have a scale of 1:250,000 (1 inch
www.aeronav.faa.gov.
                                                                  = 3.43 NM or approximately 4 SM). These charts provide
                                                                  a more detailed display of topographical information and
Sectional Charts
                                                                  are revised semiannually, except for several Alaskan and
Sectional charts are the most common charts used by pilots
                                                                  Caribbean charts. [Figure 16-2]
today. The charts have a scale of 1:500,000 (1 inch = 6.86
nautical miles (NM) or approximately 8 statute miles (SM)),
                                                                  World Aeronautical Charts
which allows for more detailed information to be included
                                                                  World aeronautical charts are designed to provide a standard
on the chart.
                                                                  series of aeronautical charts, covering land areas of the world,




Figure 16-1. Sectional chart and legend.


16-2
Figure 16-2. VFR Terminal Area Chart and legend.


at a size and scale convenient for navigation by moderate speed     Meridian,” which passes through Greenwich, England, is
aircraft. They are produced at a scale of 1:1,000,000 (1 inch =     used as the zero line from which measurements are made in
13.7 NM or approximately 16 SM). These charts are similar to        degrees east (E) and west (W) to 180°. The 48 conterminous
sectional charts, and the symbols are the same except there is      states of the United States are between 67° and 125° W
less detail due to the smaller scale. [Figure 16-3] These charts    longitude. The arrows in Figure 16-4 labeled “Longitude”
are revised annually except several Alaskan charts and the          point to lines of longitude.
Mexican/Caribbean charts, which are revised every 2 years.
                                                                    Any specific geographical point can be located by reference
Latitude and Longitude (Meridians and                               to its longitude and latitude. Washington, D.C., for example,
Parallels)                                                          is approximately 39° N latitude, 77° W longitude. Chicago
                                                                    is approximately 42° N latitude, 88° W longitude.
The equator is an imaginary circle equidistant from the poles
of the Earth. Circles parallel to the equator (lines running east
                                                                    Time Zones
and west) are parallels of latitude. They are used to measure
degrees of latitude north (N) or south (S) of the equator. The      The meridians are also useful for designating time zones. A
angular distance from the equator to the pole is one-fourth         day is defined as the time required for the Earth to make one
of a circle or 90°. The 48 conterminous states of the United        complete rotation of 360°. Since the day is divided into 24
States are located between 25° and 49° N latitude. The arrows       hours, the Earth revolves at the rate of 15° an hour. Noon is
in Figure 16-4 labeled “Latitude” point to lines of latitude.       the time when the sun is directly above a meridian; to the
Meridians of longitude are drawn from the North Pole to the         west of that meridian is morning, to the east is afternoon.
South Pole and are at right angles to the Equator. The “Prime


                                                                                                                           16-3
Figure 16-3. World aeronautical chart.

                                                90°N
                                                                                                    The standard practice is to establish a time zone for each
                                                 75°N
                                                                                                    15° of longitude. This makes a difference of exactly 1 hour
                                                                                                    between each zone. In the conterminous United States,
                                                60°N
                                                                                                    there are four time zones. The time zones are Eastern (75°),
                                                           La




                                                                                                    Central (90°), Mountain (105°), and Pacific (120°). The
                                                             titu




                                                                                 P




                                                45°N
                                                                                                    dividing lines are somewhat irregular because communities
                                                                                   ri m
                                                                  de




                                                                                                    near the boundaries often find it more convenient to use time
                                                                                       e
                                                                                     me




                                                30°N
                      Lo
                        ngi
                                                                                                    designations of neighboring communities or trade centers.
                                                                                       r idia
   1
   15




                           tude
     50


             13 5°




                                                                                     1
                                                                                     15
      0°°W




                                                                                       5
                       120 °W




                                                                              30°W




                                                15°N
         W




                                                                                                    Figure 16-5 shows the time zones in the conterminous United
                                                                                             n
                                                                                              °
                                105°W




                                                                                              °W
                                                                       45°W




                                                                                                W
                                        90°W



                                                  7 5° W



                                                              60°W
                  W




                                                                                                    States. When the sun is directly above the 90th meridian, it
                                               E quator
                                                                                                    is noon Central Standard Time. At the same time, it is 1 p.m.
                                                                                                    Eastern Standard Time, 11 a.m. Mountain Standard Time,
                                                15°S                                                and 10 a.m. Pacific Standard Time. When Daylight Saving
                                                                                                    Time is in effect, generally between the second Sunday in
                                                30°S
                                                                                                    March and the first Sunday in November, the sun is directly
                                                45°S                                                above the 75th meridian at noon, Central Daylight Time.
                                                60°S



                                                                                                    These time zone differences must be taken into account
                                                                                                    during long flights eastward—especially if the flight must
Figure 16-4. Meridians and parallels—the basis of measuring time,
                                                                                                    be completed before dark. Remember, an hour is lost when
distance, and direction.



16-4
    Pacific standard time    Mountain standard time      Central standard time                  Eastern standard time




                                                                                                                        75°

      120°




                                         105°
                                                                                 90°




Figure 16-5. Time zones in the conterminous United States.


flying eastward from one time zone to another, or perhaps           For Daylight Saving Time, 1 hour should be subtracted from
even when flying from the western edge to the eastern edge          the calculated times.
of the same time zone. Determine the time of sunset at the
destination by consulting the flight service station (FSS) and      Measurement of Direction
take this into account when planning an eastbound flight.           By using the meridians, direction from one point to another
                                                                    can be measured in degrees, in a clockwise direction from
In most aviation operations, time is expressed in terms of          true north. To indicate a course to be followed in flight,
the 24-hour clock. ATC instructions, weather reports and            draw a line on the chart from the point of departure to the
broadcasts, and estimated times of arrival are all based on         destination and measure the angle that this line forms with
this system. For example: 9 a.m. is expressed as 0900, 1 p.m.       a meridian. Direction is expressed in degrees, as shown by
is 1300, and 10 p.m. is 2200.                                       the compass rose in Figure 16-6.

Because a pilot may cross several time zones during a flight, a     Because meridians converge toward the poles, course
standard time system has been adopted. It is called Universal       measurement should be taken at a meridian near the midpoint
Coordinated Time (UTC) and is often referred to as Zulu             of the course rather than at the point of departure. The course
time. UTC is the time at the 0° line of longitude which passes      measured on the chart is known as the true course (TC). This
through Greenwich, England. All of the time zones around            is the direction measured by reference to a meridian or true
the world are based on this reference. To convert to this time,     north (TN). It is the direction of intended flight as measured
a pilot should do the following:                                    in degrees clockwise from TN.
       Eastern Standard Time...........Add 5 hours
                                                                    As shown in Figure 16-7, the direction from A to B would be
       Central Standard Time...........Add 6 hours                  a TC of 065°, whereas the return trip (called the reciprocal)
       Mountain Standard Time.......Add 7 hours                     would be a TC of 245°.
       Pacific Standard Time............Add 8 hours


                                                                                                                              16-5
                                                                             The north magnetic pole is located close to 71° N latitude, 96°
                                     36
                                                                             W longitude and is about 1,300 miles from the geographic
                      33                                                     or true north pole, as indicated in Figure 16-8. If the Earth
                                                                             were uniformly magnetized, the compass needle would point
                                                       3
                                     N      NN
                                W
                           N
                               N                   E
                                                       N
                                                                             toward the magnetic pole, in which case the variation between
                      W                                                      TN (as shown by the geographical meridians) and MN (as
            3

                  N




                                                        E



                                                                     6
             0




                                                                             shown by the magnetic meridians) could be measured at any
                 W




                                                            N
                                                                             intersection of the meridians.
              N




                                                            E
                                                             N
             W




                                                                             Actually, the Earth is not uniformly magnetized. In the United
       27

            W




                                                                E


                                                                         9
                                                                             States, the needle usually points in the general direction of
               W




                                                                             the magnetic pole, but it may vary in certain geographical


                                                                ES
              S




                                                                             localities by many degrees. Consequently, the exact amount
                                                            E
                  W
         24




                                                                  2
                      W




                                                       E    S
                                                                             of variation at thousands of selected locations in the United
                                                                 1           States has been carefully determined. The amount and the
                      S
                                                S
                           W                     S
                               SS           E

                      2
                                     S
                                                                             direction of variation, which change slightly from time
                       1
                                                       15                    to time, are shown on most aeronautical charts as broken
                                    18
                                                                             magenta lines called isogonic lines that connect points of
                                                                             equal magnetic variation. (The line connecting points at
                                                                             which there is no variation between TN and MN is the agonic
Figure 16-6. Compass rose.                                                   line.) An isogonic chart is shown in Figure 16-9. Minor
                                                                             bends and turns in the isogonic and agonic lines are caused
The true heading (TH) is the direction in which the nose of                  by unusual geological conditions affecting magnetic forces
the aircraft points during a flight when measured in degrees                 in these areas.
clockwise from TN. Usually, it is necessary to head the
aircraft in a direction slightly different from the TC to offset             On the west coast of the United States, the compass needle
the effect of wind. Consequently, numerical value of the TH                  points to the east of TN; on the east coast, the compass needle
may not correspond with that of the TC. This is discussed                    points to the west of TN.
more fully in subsequent sections in this chapter. For the
purpose of this discussion, assume a no-wind condition exists
under which heading and course would coincide. Thus, for
a TC of 065°, the TH would be 065°. To use the compass
accurately, however, corrections must be made for magnetic
variation and compass deviation.

Variation
Variation is the angle between TN and magnetic north (MN).
It is expressed as east variation or west variation depending
upon whether MN is to the east or west of TN.                                                                 TN




                           Course A to B 065°                                                               MN
                                           0 65
                                               °                         B
                                         24 5
                                            °




     A                         Course B to A 245°                            Figure 16-8. Magnetic meridians are in red while the lines of
                                                                             longitude and latitude are in blue. From these lines of variation
Figure 16-7. Courses are determined by reference to meridians on             (magnetic meridians), one can determine the effect of local magnetic
aeronautical charts.                                                         variations on a magnetic compass.



16-6
                                                                                        this course off the magnetic compass would not provide an
            Easterly variation                      Westerly variation                  accurate course between the two points due to three elements
                                                                                        that must be considered. The first is magnetic variation, the
                                                                                        second is compass deviation, and the third is wind correction.
                                                                                        All three must be considered for accurate navigation.

                                                                                        Magnetic Variation
                                                                                        As mentioned in the paragraph discussing variation, the
                                                                                        appropriate variation for the geographical location of
                                                                                        the flight must be considered and added or subtracted as
                                                                                        appropriate. If flying across an area where the variation
                                                                                        changes, then the values must be applied along the route of
                                                                                        flight appropriately. Once applied, this new course is called
                                                                                        the magnetic course.

                                                       Agonic line                      Magnetic Deviation
                                                                                        Because each aircraft has its own internal effect upon the
                                                                                        onboard compass systems from its own localized magnetic
Figure 16-9. Note the agonic line where magnetic variation is zero.
                                                                                        influencers, the pilot must add or subtract these influencers
                                                                                        based upon the direction he or she is flying. The application of
Zero degree variation exists on the agonic line where                                   deviation (taken from a compass deviation card) compensates
MN and TN coincide. This line runs roughly west of the                                  the magnetic course unique to that aircraft’s compass system
Great Lakes, south through Wisconsin, Illinois, western                                 (as affected by localized magnetic influencers) and it now
Tennessee, and along the border of Mississippi and Alabama.                             becomes the compass course. Therefore, the compass course,
Compare Figures 16-9 and 16-10.                                                         when followed (in a no wind condition), takes the aircraft
                                                                                        from point A to point B even though the aircraft heading
Because courses are measured in reference to geographical                               may not match the original course line drawn on the chart.
meridians that point toward TN, and these courses are
maintained by reference to the compass that points along a                              If the variation is shown as “9° E,” this means that MN is
magnetic meridian in the general direction of MN, the true                              9° east of TN. If a TC of 360° is to be flown, 9° must be
direction must be converted into magnetic direction for the                             subtracted from 360°, which results in a magnetic heading
purpose of flight. This conversion is made by adding or                                 of 351°. To fly east, a magnetic course of 081° (090° – 9°)
subtracting the variation indicated by the nearest isogonic                             would be flown. To fly south, the magnetic course would be
line on the chart.                                                                      171° (180° – 9°). To fly west, it would be 261° (270° – 9°).
                                                                                        To fly a TH of 060°, a magnetic course of 051° (060° – 9°)
For example, a line drawn between two points on a chart                                 would be flown.
is called a TC as it is measured from TN. However, flying

                                   NP                                              NP                                          NP

                                       E
                                  varia as
                                       tio t   MP                                                             MP               t
                                                                                                                            esiatio
                                                                                                                                   n
                                          n
                                                                                   MP                                     W ar
                                                                                                                           v




                                                                                       Zero
                                                                                       variation



                         N                                                         N                                                        N
                    33                                                        33                                                       33
                             3                                                          3                                                       3
               3




                                                                         3




                                                                                                                                  3
                                  6




                                                                                             6




                                                                                                                                                     6
                0




                                                                          0




                                                                                                                                   0
               W




                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                 W
                                   E




                                                                                              E




                                                                                                                                                      E
               24




                                                                         24




                                                                                                                                  24
                                   2




                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                      2
                                  1




                                                                                             1




                                                                                                                                                     1




                    2                                                         2                                                        2
                     1                                                         1                                                        1
                             15                                                         15                                                      15
                         S                                                         S                                                        S




                                   SP                                              SP                                          SP


Figure 16-10. Effect of variation on the compass.


                                                                                                                                                          16-7
Remember, if variation is west, add; if east, subtract. One                             The aircraft is placed on a magnetic compass rose, the engine
method for remembering whether to add or subtract variation                             started, and electrical devices normally used (such as radio)
is the phrase “east is least (subtract) and west is best (add).”                        are turned on. Tailwheel-type aircraft should be jacked up into
                                                                                        flying position. The aircraft is aligned with MN indicated on
Deviation                                                                               the compass rose and the reading shown on the compass is
Determining the magnetic heading is an intermediate step                                recorded on a deviation card. The aircraft is then aligned at
necessary to obtain the correct compass heading for the flight.                         30° intervals and each reading is recorded. If the aircraft is to
To determine compass heading, a correction for deviation                                be flown at night, the lights are turned on and any significant
must be made. Because of magnetic influences within an                                  changes in the readings are noted. If so, additional entries
aircraft, such as electrical circuits, radio, lights, tools, engine,                    are made for use at night. The accuracy of the compass can
and magnetized metal parts, the compass needle is frequently                            also be checked by comparing the compass reading with the
deflected from its normal reading. This deflection is called                            known runway headings.
deviation. The deviation is different for each aircraft, and
it also may vary for different headings in the same aircraft.                           A deviation card, similar to Figure 16-12, is mounted near
For instance, if magnetism in the engine attracts the north                             the compass showing the addition or subtraction required to
end of the compass, there would be no effect when the plane                             correct for deviation on various headings, usually at intervals
is on a heading of MN. On easterly or westerly headings,                                of 30°. For intermediate readings, the pilot should be able to
however, the compass indications would be in error, as shown                            interpolate mentally with sufficient accuracy. For example,
in Figure 16-11. Magnetic attraction can come from many                                 if the pilot needed the correction for 195° and noted the
other parts of the aircraft; the assumption of attraction in the                        correction for 180° to be 0° and for 210° to be +2°, it could
engine is merely used for the purpose of illustration.                                  be assumed that the correction for 195° would be +1°. The
                                                                                        magnetic heading, when corrected for deviation, is known
Some adjustment of the compass, referred to as compensation,                            as compass heading.
can be made to reduce this error, but the remaining correction
must be applied by the pilot.                                                           Effect of Wind
                                                                                        The preceding discussion explained how to measure a TC
Proper compensation of the compass is best performed by                                 on the aeronautical chart and how to make corrections for
a competent technician. Since the magnetic forces within                                variation and deviation, but one important factor has not
the aircraft change because of landing shocks, vibration,                               been considered—wind. As discussed in the study of the
mechanical work, or changes in equipment, the pilot should                              atmosphere, wind is a mass of air moving over the surface of
occasionally have the deviation of the compass checked. The                             the Earth in a definite direction. When the wind is blowing
procedure used to check the deviation is called “swinging the                           from the north at 25 knots, it simply means that air is moving
compass” and is briefly outlined as follows.                                            southward over the Earth’s surface at the rate of 25 NM in
                                                                                        1 hour.

                                    Magnetic North
                                                                                        Under these conditions, any inert object free from contact
                                                                                        with the Earth is carried 25 NM southward in 1 hour. This
       Magnetic North                                         Magnetic North            effect becomes apparent when such things as clouds, dust,
                                                                                        and toy balloons are observed being blown along by the wind.
                                           33
                                                N
                                                    3
                                                                                        Obviously, an aircraft flying within the moving mass of air
                                                                                        is similarly affected. Even though the aircraft does not float
                                      3




                                                         6
                                       0




                                                                                        freely with the wind, it moves through the air at the same
                                      W




                                                          E
                                      24




                                                          2




                                                                                        time the air is moving over the ground, and thus is affected
                                                         1




                    N                                                     N
               33                                                    33
                        3                  2
                                            1
                                                    15
                                                                              3
                                                S
          3




                                                                3
                             6




                                                                                   6




                                                                                        by wind. Consequently, at the end of 1 hour of flight, the
           0




                                                                 0
         W




                                                               W
                              E




                                                                                    E




                                                                                        aircraft is in a position that results from a combination of
         24




                                                               24
                              2




                                                                                    2
                             1




                                                                                   1




               2                                                     2
                1                                                     1


                                                                                        the following two motions:
                        15                                                    15
                    S                                                     S




                                                                                         For (Magnetic)         N     30     60      E     120    150
                                                                                         Steer (Compass)        0     28     57      86    117    148
                                  Magnetized engine                                      For (Magnetic         S      210    240     W     300    330
                                                                                         Steer (Compass)      180     212    243    274    303    332

                                                                                        Figure 16-12. Compass deviation card.
Figure 16-11. Magnetized portions of the airplane cause the
compass to deviate from its normal indications.

16-8
  •    Movement of the air mass in reference to the ground              mass of air is moving westward at 20 knots, the airspeed of
  •    Forward movement of the aircraft through the air mass            the aircraft remains the same, but GS becomes 120 minus
                                                                        20 or 100 knots.
Actually, these two motions are independent. It makes no
difference whether the mass of air through which the aircraft           Assuming no correction is made for wind effect, if an aircraft
is flying is moving or is stationary. A pilot flying in a 70-           is heading eastward at 120 knots and the air mass moving
knot gale would be totally unaware of any wind (except for              southward at 20 knots, the aircraft at the end of 1 hour is
possible turbulence) unless the ground were observed. In                almost 120 miles east of its point of departure because of its
reference to the ground, however, the aircraft would appear             progress through the air. It is 20 miles south because of the
to fly faster with a tailwind or slower with a headwind, or to          motion of the air. Under these circumstances, the airspeed
drift right or left with a crosswind.                                   remains 120 knots, but the GS is determined by combining
                                                                        the movement of the aircraft with that of the air mass. GS can
As shown in Figure 16-13, an aircraft flying eastward at                be measured as the distance from the point of departure to
an airspeed of 120 knots in still air has a groundspeed (GS)            the position of the aircraft at the end of 1 hour. The GS can
exactly the same—120 knots. If the mass of air is moving                be computed by the time required to fly between two points a
eastward at 20 knots, the airspeed of the aircraft is not               known distance apart. It also can be determined before flight
affected, but the progress of the aircraft over the ground is           by constructing a wind triangle, which is explained later in
120 plus 20 or a GS of 140 knots. On the other hand, if the             this chapter. [Figure 16-14]

                                                                        The direction in which the aircraft is pointing as it flies is
                WINDS ARE CALM
                                                                        called heading. Its actual path over the ground, which is a
                                                                        combination of the motion of the aircraft and the motion of
                                                                        the air, is called track. The angle between the heading and
                                                           090°         the track is called drift angle. If the aircraft heading coincides
                                                                        with the TC and the wind is blowing from the left, the track
                                                                        does not coincide with the TC. The wind causes the aircraft
                                                                        to drift to the right, so the track falls to the right of the desired
                                                                        course or TC. [Figure 16-15]
                Groundspeed 120 knots
                                                                        The following method is used by many pilots to determine
            WINDS 270° AT 20 KNOTS                      090°            compass heading: after the TC is measured, and wind
                                                                        correction applied resulting in a TH, the sequence TH ±
                                                                        variation (V) = magnetic heading (MH) ± deviation (D)
                                                                        = compass heading (CH) is followed to arrive at compass
                                                                        heading. [Figure 16-16]

                                                                        By determining the amount of drift, the pilot can counteract
                                                                        the effect of the wind and make the track of the aircraft
                      Groundspeed 140 knots                             coincide with the desired course. If the mass of air is moving
                                                                        across the course from the left, the aircraft drifts to the
            WINDS 090° AT 20 KNOTS                                      right, and a correction must be made by heading the aircraft
                                                                        sufficiently to the left to offset this drift. In other words, if
                                                                        the wind is from the left, the correction is made by pointing
                                                          090°          the aircraft to the left a certain number of degrees, therefore
                                                                        correcting for wind drift. This is the wind correction angle
                                                                        (WCA) and is expressed in terms of degrees right or left of
                                                                        the TC. [Figure 16-17]

           Groundspeed 100 knots

Figure 16-13. Motion of the air affects the speed with which aircraft
move over the Earth’s surface. Airspeed, the rate at which an
aircraft moves through the air, is not affected by air motion.



                                                                                                                                       16-9
                                                                                   Airspeed effect (1 hour)




                                                                                                                                      20 knots
                                                            Dista
                                                                  nce
                                                                        cove
                                                                               red o
                                                                                      ver g
                                                                                           roun
                                                                                                  d (1
                                                                                                         hour
                                                                                                             )




Figure 16-14. Aircraft flight path resulting from its airspeed and direction and the wind speed and direction.




                                                                                                                     Wind
                                                                        Heading

                                                                                                                  Desired course
                                                                 Drift angle


                                                                        Trac
                                                                               k




Figure 16-15. Effects of wind drift on maintaining desired course.

                                                                                          To summarize:
          TN            MN C
                                N
                                                                                              •     Course—intended path of an aircraft over the ground
                                                                                                    or the direction of a line drawn on a chart representing
                         °
                        DEV 4




                                           CH                                                       the intended aircraft path, expressed as the angle
                                             -0
                                                  74                                                measured from a specific reference datum clockwise
                                      MH
                                                                                                    from 0° through 360° to the line.
                                                   °




                                        -0
                                             7
                                    TH                                                        •     Heading—direction in which the nose of the aircraft
            VAR 10° E




                                             8°




                                      -0
                                                                                                    points during flight.
                                       88
                                          °




                                                                                              •     Track—actual path made over the ground in flight. (If
                                                                                                    proper correction has been made for the wind, track
                                                                                                    and course are identical.)
                                                                                              •     Drift angle—angle between heading and track.
                                                       Heading
                                                                                              •     WCA—correction applied to the course to establish
                                                                                                    a heading so that track coincides with course.
                                                                                              •     Airspeed—rate of the aircraft’s progress through
                                                                                                    the air.
Figure 16-16. Relationship between true, magnetic, and compass
headings for a particular instance.
                                                                                              •     GS—rate of the aircraft’s inflight progress over
                                                                                                    the ground.




16-10
                                                                                                              °
                                                                                                          075




                                       Wind
                                                                    ding
                                                              Hea

                                                               Wind
                                                               correction
                                                               angle
                                                                                                                   090°
                                                            Track                           Desired course




Figure 16-17. Establishing a wind correction angle that counteracts wind drift and maintains the desired course.


Basic Calculations                                                    knots). Pilots, therefore, should learn to convert wind speeds
                                                                      that are reported in knots to mph.
Before a cross-country flight, a pilot should make common
calculations for time, speed, and distance, and the amount
                                                                      A knot is 1 nautical mile per hour (NMPH). Because there are
of fuel required.
                                                                      6,076.1 feet in 1 NM and 5,280 feet in 1 SM, the conversion
                                                                      factor is 1.15. To convert knots to mph, multiply speed in
Converting Minutes to Equivalent Hours
                                                                      knots by 1.15. For example: a wind speed of 20 knots is
Frequently, it is necessary to convert minutes into equivalent
                                                                      equivalent to 23 mph.
hours when solving speed, time, and distance problems. To
convert minutes to hours, divide by 60 (60 minutes = 1 hour).
                                                                      Most flight computers or electronic calculators have a
Thus, 30 minutes is 30/60 = 0.5 hour. To convert hours to
                                                                      means of making this conversion. Another quick method of
minutes, multiply by 60. Thus, 0.75 hour equals 0.75 × 60
                                                                      conversion is to use the scales of NM and SM at the bottom
= 45 minutes.
                                                                      of aeronautical charts.

Time T = D/GS                                                         Fuel Consumption
To find the time (T) in flight, divide the distance (D) by the        To ensure that sufficient fuel is available for your intended
GS. The time to fly 210 NM at a GS of 140 knots is 210 ÷              flight, you must be able to accurately compute aircraft fuel
140 or 1.5 hours. (The 0.5 hour multiplied by 60 minutes              consumption during preflight planning. Typically, fuel
equals 30 minutes.) Answer: 1:30.                                     consumption in gasoline-fueled aircraft is measured in
                                                                      gallons per hour. Since turbine engines consume much more
Distance D = GS X T                                                   fuel than reciprocating engines, turbine-powered aircraft
To find the distance flown in a given time, multiply GS by            require much more fuel, and thus much larger fuel tanks.
time. The distance flown in 1 hour 45 minutes at a GS of 120          When determining these large fuel quantities, using a volume
knots is 120 × 1.75 or 210 NM.                                        measurement such as gallons presents a problem because
                                                                      the volume of fuel varies greatly in relation to temperature.
                                                                      In contrast, density (weight) is less affected by temperature
GS GS = D/T
                                                                      and therefore, provides a more uniform and repeatable
To find the GS, divide the distance flown by the time                 measurement. For this reason, jet fuel is generally quantified
required. If an aircraft flies 270 NM in 3 hours, the GS is           by its density and volume.
270 ÷ 3 = 90 knots.
                                                                      This standard industry convention yields a pounds-of-fuel-
Converting Knots to Miles Per Hour                                    per-hour value which, when divided into the nautical miles
Another conversion is that of changing knots to miles per hour        (NM) per hour of travel (TAS ± winds) value, results in a
(mph). The aviation industry is using knots more frequently           specific range value. The typical label for specific range is
than mph, but is important to understand the conversion for           NM per pound of fuel, or often NM per 1,000 pounds of fuel.
those that use mph when working with speed problems. The              Preflight planning should be supported by proper monitoring
NWS reports both surface winds and winds aloft in knots.              of past fuel consumption as well as use of specified fuel
However, airspeed indicators in some aircraft are calibrated          management and mixture adjustment procedures in flight.
in mph (although many are now calibrated in both mph and


                                                                                                                             16-11
For simple aircraft with reciprocating engines, the Aircraft     computer has an instruction book that probably includes
Flight Manual/Pilot’s Operating Handbook (AFM/POH)               sample problems so the pilot can become familiar with its
supplied by the aircraft manufacturer provides gallons-per-      functions and operation. [Figure 16-18]
hour values to assist with preflight planning.
                                                                 Plotter
When planning a flight, you must determine how much              Another aid in flight planning is a plotter, which is a protractor
fuel is needed to reach your destination by calculating the      and ruler. The pilot can use this when determining TC and
distance the aircraft can travel (with winds considered) at      measuring distance. Most plotters have a ruler that measures
a known rate of fuel consumption (gal/hr or lbs/hr) for the      in both NM and SM and has a scale for a sectional chart on one
expected groundspeed (GS) and ensure this amount, plus an        side and a world aeronautical chart on the other. [Figure 16-18]
adequate reserve, is available on board. GS determines the
time the flight will take. The amount of fuel needed for a       Pilotage
given flight can be calculated by multiplying the estimated      Pilotage is navigation by reference to landmarks or
flight time by the rate of consumption. For example, a flight    checkpoints. It is a method of navigation that can be used
of 400 NM at 100 knots GS takes 4 hours to complete. If an       on any course that has adequate checkpoints, but it is more
aircraft consumes 5 gallons of fuel per hour, the total fuel     commonly used in conjunction with dead reckoning and
consumption is 20 gallons (4 hours times 5 gallons). In this     VFR radio navigation.
example, there is no wind; therefore, true airspeed (TAS)
is also 100 knots, the same as GS. Since the rate of fuel        The checkpoints selected should be prominent features
consumption remains relatively constant at a given TAS,          common to the area of the flight. Choose checkpoints that can
you must use GS to calculate fuel consumption when wind          be readily identified by other features, such as roads, rivers,
is present. Specific range (NM/lb or NM/gal) is also useful      railroad tracks, lakes, and power lines. If possible, select
in calculating fuel consumption when wind is a factor.           features that make useful boundaries or brackets on each
                                                                 side of the course, such as highways, rivers, railroads, and
You should always plan to be on the surface before any of        mountains. A pilot can keep from drifting too far off course
the following occur:                                             by referring to and not crossing the selected brackets. Never
  •     Your flight time exceeds the amount of flight time       place complete reliance on any single checkpoint. Choose
        you calculated for the consumption of your preflight     ample checkpoints. If one is missed, look for the next one while
        fuel amount                                              maintaining the heading. When determining position from
  •     Your fuel gauge indicates low fuel level                 checkpoints, remember that the scale of a sectional chart is 1
                                                                 inch = 8 SM or 6.86 NM. For example, if a checkpoint selected
The rate of fuel consumption depends on many factors:            was approximately one-half inch from the course line on the
condition of the engine, propeller/rotor pitch, propeller/       chart, it is 4 SM or 3.43 NM from the course on the ground.
rotor revolutions per minute (rpm), richness of the mixture,     In the more congested areas, some of the smaller features are
and the percentage of horsepower used for flight at cruising     not included on the chart. If confused, hold the heading. If a
speed. The pilot should know the approximate consumption         turn is made away from the heading, it is easy to become lost.
rate from cruise performance charts or from experience.
In addition to the amount of fuel required for the flight,       Roads shown on the chart are primarily the well-traveled
there should be sufficient fuel for reserve. When estimating     roads or those most apparent when viewed from the air.
consumption you must plan for cruise flight as well as startup   New roads and structures are constantly being built and
and taxi, and higher fuel burn during climb. Remember that       may not be shown on the chart until the next chart is issued.
ground speed during climb is less than during cruise flight      Some structures, such as antennas, may be difficult to see.
at the same airspeed. Additional fuel for adequate reserve       Sometimes TV antennas are grouped together in an area near
should also be added as a safety measure.                        a town. They are supported by almost invisible guy wires.
                                                                 Never approach an area of antennas less than 500 feet above
Flight Computers                                                 the tallest one. Most of the taller structures are marked with
Up to this point, only mathematical formulas have been used      strobe lights to make them more visible to pilots. However,
to determine such items as time, distance, speed, and fuel       some weather conditions or background lighting may make
consumption. In reality, most pilots use a mechanical flight     them difficult to see. Aeronautical charts display the best
computer called an E6B or electronic flight calculator. These    information available at the time of printing, but a pilot should
devices can compute numerous problems associated with            be cautious for new structures or changes that have occurred
flight planning and navigation. The mechanical or electronic     since the chart was printed.



16-12
                                                                                                                                      100     90       80
                                                                                                                          110                                      70
                                                                                                                  0                                                          60
                                                                                                                12                  280 270          260
                                                                                                                               290                        250                         50
                                                                                                     130                 0          190 180         170
                                                                                                                                                         160          24
                                                                                                                      30        200                                      0
                                                                                                                           0                                        15        23
                                                                                                              0         21                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                           31




                                                                                                                                                                                                40
                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                               0    350 3




                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                                         10              40
                                                                                                                                      20                      33




                                                                                                                                                                                      22
                                                                                                                               30                               0




                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                 32




                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                      0




                                                                                                                                                                                                     30
                                                                                     15




                                                                                                                                                                                            21
                                                                                                0
                                                                                            33




                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                            DEGREES




                                                                                160




                                                                                                                                                                                                           20
                                                                                                                                                                                                 200
                                                                                       340
               A       Plotter




                                                                               170




                                                                                                                                                                                                                10
                                                                                                                                                                                                     190
                                                                                      350
                NAUTICAL 5 MILES     10        15          20        25        30                   35                    40                   45                  50                      55                   60        65        70             75            80 NAUTICAL 85 MILES
                                                                                                                                    INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE
                                                                                           1.   Place hole over intersection of true course and true north line.
                   SECTIONAL CHART SIDE - 1:500,000                                        2.
                                                                                           3.
                                                                                                Without changing position rotate plotter until edge is over true course line.
                                                                                                From hole follow true north line to curved scale with arrow pointing in direction of flight.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NAVIGATIONAL FLIGHT PLOTTER
                                                                                           4.   Read true course in degrees, on proper scale, over true north line. read scales counter-clockwise.

                 0 STATUTE 5 MILES   10       15      20        25        30          35                   40                   45             50                  55                 60                   65        70        75        80             85         90         95        100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TSD Alt: As Wind Wt. Bal Timer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Conv: Dist Vol Wt Wx




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mode                                 On/Off     Clr

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dist           Vol        Wt          Wx        ÷

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               :             7           8              9     x

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sto            4           5              6     −

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Rcl            1           2              3     +

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bksp           0            .         +/-       =



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C         Electronic flight computer


                                          B         Mechanical flight computer


Figure 16-18. A plotter (A), the computational and wind side of a mechanical flight computer (E6B) (B), and an electronic flight computer (C).


Dead Reckoning                                                                                                                                         Wind Triangle or Vector Analysis
Dead reckoning is navigation solely by means of computations                                                                                           If there is no wind, the aircraft’s ground track is the same as
based on time, airspeed, distance, and direction. The products                                                                                         the heading and the GS is the same as the true airspeed. This
derived from these variables, when adjusted by wind speed                                                                                              condition rarely exists. A wind triangle, the pilot’s version
and velocity, are heading and GS. The predicted heading                                                                                                of vector analysis, is the basis of dead reckoning.
takes the aircraft along the intended path and the GS
establishes the time to arrive at each checkpoint and the                                                                                              The wind triangle is a graphic explanation of the effect of
destination. Except for flights over water, dead reckoning                                                                                             wind upon flight. GS, heading, and time for any flight can be
is usually used with pilotage for cross-country flying. The                                                                                            determined by using the wind triangle. It can be applied to
heading and GS, as calculated, is constantly monitored and                                                                                             the simplest kind of cross-country flight, as well as the most
corrected by pilotage as observed from checkpoints.                                                                                                    complicated instrument flight. The experienced pilot becomes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16-13
so familiar with the fundamental principles that estimates can                                                              the blue, yellow, and black lines in Figure 16-20, which is
be made that are adequate for visual flight without actually                                                                explained in the following example.
drawing the diagrams. The beginning student, however, needs
to develop skill in constructing these diagrams as an aid to the                                                            Suppose a flight is to be flown from E to P. Draw a line on
complete understanding of wind effect. Either consciously or                                                                the aeronautical chart connecting these two points; measure
unconsciously, every good pilot thinks of the flight in terms                                                               its direction with a protractor, or plotter, in reference to a
of wind triangle.                                                                                                           meridian. This is the TC, which in this example is assumed
                                                                                                                            to be 090° (east). From the NWS, it is learned that the wind
If flight is to be made on a course to the east, with a wind                                                                at the altitude of the intended flight is 40 knots from the
blowing from the northeast, the aircraft must be headed                                                                     northeast (045°). Since the NWS reports the wind speed in
somewhat to the north of east to counteract drift. This can                                                                 knots, if the true airspeed of the aircraft is 120 knots, there is
be represented by a diagram as shown in Figure 16-19. Each                                                                  no need to convert speeds from knots to mph or vice versa.
line represents direction and speed. The long blue and white
hashed line shows the direction the aircraft is heading, and                                                                Now, on a plain sheet of paper draw a vertical line representing
its length represents the distance traveled at the indicated                                                                north to south. (The various steps are shown in Figure 16-21.)
airspeed for 1 hour. The short blue arrow at the right shows
the wind direction, and its length represents the wind velocity                                                             Step 1
for 1 hour. The solid yellow line shows the direction of the                                                                Place the protractor with the base resting on the vertical line
track or the path of the aircraft as measured over the earth, and                                                           and the curved edge facing east. At the center point of the
its length represents the distance traveled in 1 hour or the GS.                                                            base, make a dot labeled “E” (point of departure) and at the
                                                                                                                            curved edge, make a dot at 90° (indicating the direction of the
In actual practice, the triangle illustrated in Figure 16-19 is                                                             true course) and another at 45° (indicating wind direction).
not drawn; instead, construct a similar triangle as shown by

                                                     N
                                                                                                                                                            peed
                                                                                                                                               20 knots airs
                                                                                                                               eadin   g and 1
                                                                                                                         080° h                                       Wind at 20°
                                                33
                                                     N                                                                                                               direction and
                                                                                                                                                                    35 knots velocity
                                                         3
                                                                                                                   10°




                                                                                                                         Drift Angle
                                        3




                                                                  6
                                         0
                                        W




                                                                       E




                                                                                                               090° course and 110 knots groundspeed
                                        24




                                                                   2
                                                                  1




                                                2
                                                 1
                                                         15
                                                     S



                                                                                                                      8° left correction
                                                     S


Figure 16-19. Principle of the wind triangle.


                                                                           N
          Wind direction and velocity




                                                                           N
                                                                  33
                                                                               3
                                                             3




                                                                                    6
                                                              0




                                                                           E                                                             P
                                                         W




                                                                                         E




                                                                                                                                             Course and groundspeed
                                                         24




                                                                                     2
                                                                                    1




                                                                  2
                                                                   1
                                                                               15
                                                                           S



                                                                                                                    d
                                                                                                             irspee
                                                                                                       and a
                                                                                                ding
                                                                                             Hea
                                            W
                                                                           S


Figure 16-20. The wind triangle as is drawn in navigation practice.


16-14
                                    10
                                               20
                                                              30

                                                                              40
                                              10
                         STEP 1                    N 20                                                                                               N   STEP 2 and 3
                                                                          30                       45 °




                                                                                             50
                                                                                          40




                                                                                                        60
                                                        10
                                                              20




                                                                                                        50
                    Mid point
                                                                    30




                                                                                                             70
                                                                          40




                                                                                                              60 80
                                                                                   50
                                                                                                              90 °




                                                                                        60
                                                                                             70
                                                                                                                                                                TC 090°




                                                                                                                      70
                                                                                                                                                  E




                                                                                               80




                                                                                                             90
                                                                                               90




                                                                                                                       80
                                                                                               100




                                                                                                            100
                                                                                             110
                                                                                                                                          d




                                                                                         12
                                                                                           0
                                                                                                                                       in




                                                                                                                        90
                                                                                    13
                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                      W
                                                                              14
                                                                          0




                                                                                                             110
                                                                     15
                                                                    0
                                                              160




                                                                                                                       100
                                                        170




                                                                                                        12
                                                                                                        0



                                                                                                                      110
                                                                                                  13
                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                      S




                                                                                                               12
                                                                                   14




                                                                                                              0
                                                                              0
                                                               15




                                                                                                         13
                                                              0




                                                                                                        0
                                                   N
                                         33    160            3
                                    170                                                            14
                                                                                               0
                                3




                                                                          6
                                 0




                                                                           15
                                                                          0

                                                   E                                                                                          P
                                                        160
                                W




                                                                              E
                                              170

                                                                                                           TC 090° GS 88
                                24




                                                                         2
                                                                        1



                                         2
                                                                                                               knots
                                                                                                         d 120
                                          1
                                                              15
                                                    S

                                                                                                     ee
                                                                         Airsp


                    W
                                                   S                                                               STEP 4


Figure 16-21. Steps in drawing the wind triangle.


Step 2                                                                                                                         •    By placing the straight side of the protractor along
With the ruler, draw the true course line from E, extending it                                                                      the north-south line, with its center point at the
somewhat beyond the dot by 90°, and labeling it “TC 090°.”                                                                          intersection of the airspeed line and north-south line,
                                                                                                                                    read the TH directly in degrees (076°). [Figure 16-22]
Step 3                                                                                                                         •    By placing the straight side of the protractor along the
Next, align the ruler with E and the dot at 45°, and draw                                                                           TC line, with its center at P, read the angle between
the wind arrow from E, not toward 045°, but downwind in                                                                             the TC and the airspeed line. This is the WCA, which
the direction the wind is blowing making it 40 units long to                                                                        must be applied to the TC to obtain the TH. If the wind
correspond with the wind velocity of 40 knots. Identify this                                                                        blows from the right of TC, the angle is added; if from
line as the wind line by placing the letter “W” at the end to                                                                       the left, it is subtracted. In the example given, the
show the wind direction.                                                                                                            WCA is 14° and the wind is from the left; therefore,
                                                                                                                                    subtract 14° from TC of 090°, making the TH 076°.
Step 4                                                                                                                              [Figure 16-23]
Finally, measure 120 units on the ruler to represent the
airspeed, making a dot on the ruler at this point. The units                                                                 After obtaining the TH, apply the correction for magnetic
used may be of any convenient scale or value (such as ¼                                                                      variation to obtain magnetic heading and the correction
inch = 10 knots), but once selected, the same scale must                                                                     for compass deviation to obtain a compass heading. The
be used for each of the linear movements involved. Then                                                                      compass heading can be used to fly to the destination by
place the ruler so that the end is on the arrowhead (W) and                                                                  dead reckoning.
the 120-knot dot intercepts the TC line. Draw the line and
label it “AS 120.” The point “P” placed at the intersection                                                                  To determine the time and fuel required for the flight, first
represents the position of the aircraft at the end of 1 hour.                                                                find the distance to your destination by measuring the length
The diagram is now complete.                                                                                                 of the course line drawn on the aeronautical chart (using the
                                                                                                                             appropriate scale at the bottom of the chart). If the distance
The distance flown in 1 hour (GS) is measured as the numbers                                                                 measures 220 NM, divide by the GS of 88 knots, which gives
of units on the TC line (88 NMPH or 88 knots). The TH                                                                        2.5 hours, or 2:30, as the time required. If fuel consumption
necessary to offset drift is indicated by the direction of the                                                               is 8 gallons an hour, 8 × 2.5 or about 20 gallons is used.
airspeed line, which can be determined in one of two ways:



                                                                                                                                                                                     16-15
                                   N
                              10
                                   20
                                              30

                                                                40

                                                                                                    TC 090° GS 88




                                                                           50
                                   E                                                                                                                                             P




                                                                                    60
                                        10
                                              20


                                                                                         76°
                                                    30




                                                                                                                      S 120
                                                          40



                                                                                                                 76° A




                                                                                       70
                                                                                                             TH 0




                                                                50

                                                                     60
                                                                          70




                                                                                         80
                                                                           80
                                                                            90




                                                                                         90
                                                                           100
                                                                          110
                                                                      12




                                                                                        100
           W                                                     13
                                                                      0
                                                                0



                                                           14
                                                          0
                                                     15
                                                    0
                                              160




                                                                                         110
                                        170




                                   S
                                                                                      12
                                                                                        0
                                                                                 13
                                                                                0




Figure 16-22. Finding true heading by the wind correction angle.


                                   N




                                                                                      TC 090° GS 88
                                   E
                                                                                        WCA =14° L                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                      170




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                         10




                                                                                                                                       160




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20
                                                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                                                                                                               30
                                                                                                                                             15
                                                                                                                          20




                                                                                                                                                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                          40
                                                                                                                                                  14


                                                                                                                                                       0                                             50
                                                                                                                                                        13



                                                                                                 S 120                   14°
                                                                                                                                                             0                                  60
                                                                                                                                                              12
                                                                                                                                                                                           70



                                                                                            76° A
                                                                                                                                                                    110
                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                          100   90    80



                                                                                 TH 0
                                                                                                                               15
                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                    14




                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                      13
           W                                                                                                                                                       12
                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70
                                                                                                                                                                                110        100             90             80


                                   S


Figure 16-23. Finding true heading by direct measurement.


Briefly summarized, the steps in obtaining flight information                                            •     Variation—obtained from the isogonic line on the
are as follows:                                                                                                chart (added to TH if west; subtracted if east)
  •     TC—direction of the line connecting two desired                                                  •     MH—an intermediate step in the conversion (obtained
        points, drawn on the chart and measured clockwise                                                      by applying variation to TH)
        in degrees from TN on the mid-meridian                                                           •     Deviation—obtained from the deviation card on the
  •     WCA—determined from the wind triangle. (Added                                                          aircraft (added to or subtracted from MH, as indicated)
        to TC if the wind is from the right; subtracted if wind                                          •     Compass heading—reading on the compass (found by
        is from the left)                                                                                      applying deviation to MH) that is followed to remain
  •     TH—direction measured in degrees clockwise from                                                        on the desired course
        TN, in which the nose of the plane should point to
        remain on the desired course



16-16
  •    Total distance—obtained by measuring the length of
       the TC line on the chart (using the scale at the bottom
       of the chart)
  •    GS—obtained by measuring the length of the TC line
       on the wind triangle (using the scale employed for
       drawing the diagram)
  •    Estimated time en route (ETE)—total distance divided
       by GS
  •    Fuel rate—predetermined gallons per hour used at
       cruising speed

NOTE: Additional fuel for adequate reserve should be added
as a safety measure.

Flight Planning
Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations (14 CFR) part
91 states, in part, that before beginning a flight, the pilot in
command (PIC) of an aircraft shall become familiar with all
available information concerning that flight. For flights not
in the vicinity of an airport, this must include information
on available current weather reports and forecasts, fuel
requirements, alternatives available if the planned flight
                                                                      Figure 16-24. Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility
cannot be completed, and any known traffic delays of which
                                                                      Directory).
the PIC has been advised by ATC.
                                                                      decide on refueling stops), FSS located on the airport, control
Assembling Necessary Material
                                                                      tower and ground control frequencies, traffic information,
The pilot should collect the necessary material well before
                                                                      remarks, and other pertinent information. The NOTAMs,
beginning the flight. An appropriate current sectional chart
                                                                      issued every 28 days, should be checked for additional
and charts for areas adjoining the flight route should be among
                                                                      information on hazardous conditions or changes that have
this material if the route of flight is near the border of a chart.
                                                                      been made since issuance of the Chart Supplement U.S.
Additional equipment should include a flight computer or
                                                                      The sectional chart bulletin subsection should be checked for
electronic calculator, plotter, and any other item appropriate
                                                                      major changes that have occurred since the last publication date
to the particular flight. For example, if a night flight is to
                                                                      of each sectional chart being used. Remember, the chart may
be undertaken, carry a flashlight; if a flight is over desert
                                                                      be up to 6 months old. The effective date of the chart appears
country, carry a supply of water and other necessities.
                                                                      at the top of the front of the chart. The Chart Supplement U.S.
                                                                      generally has the latest information pertaining to such matters
Weather Check
                                                                      and should be used in preference to the information on the
It is wise to check the weather before continuing with other
                                                                      back of the chart, if there are differences.
aspects of flight planning to see, first of all, if the flight is
feasible and, if it is, which route is best. Chapter 12, “Aviation
                                                                      Airplane Flight Manual or Pilot’s Operating
Weather Services,” discusses obtaining a weather briefing.            Handbook (AFM/POH)
                                                                      The Aircraft Flight Manual or Pilot’s Operating Handbook
Use of Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/
                                                                      (AFM/POH) should be checked to determine the proper
Facility Directory)
                                                                      loading of the aircraft (weight and balance data). The weight
Study available information about each airport at which a
                                                                      of the usable fuel and drainable oil aboard must be known.
landing is intended. This should include a study of the Notices
                                                                      Also, check the weight of the passengers, the weight of all
to Airmen (NOTAMs) and the Chart Supplement U.S.
                                                                      baggage to be carried, and the empty weight of the aircraft to
(formerly Airport/Facility Directory). [Figure 16-24] This
                                                                      be sure that the total weight does not exceed the maximum
includes location, elevation, runway and lighting facilities,
                                                                      allowable weight. The distribution of the load must be known
available services, availability of aeronautical advisory
                                                                      to tell if the resulting center of gravity (CG) is within limits.
station frequency (UNICOM), types of fuel available (use to

                                                                                                                               16-17
Be sure to use the latest weight and balance information in                         VOR station that is off the direct route, but makes navigating
the FAA-approved AFM or other permanent aircraft records,                           easier, may be chosen (radio navigation is discussed later in
as appropriate, to obtain empty weight and empty weight                             this chapter).
CG information.
                                                                                    Appropriate checkpoints should be selected along the route
Determine the takeoff and landing distances from the                                and noted in some way. These should be easy-to-locate
appropriate charts, based on the calculated load, elevation                         points, such as large towns, large lakes and rivers, or
of the airport, and temperature; then compare these distances                       combinations of recognizable points, such as towns with
with the amount of runway available. Remember, the                                  an airport, towns with a network of highways, and railroads
heavier the load and the higher the elevation, temperature,                         entering and departing.
or humidity, the longer the takeoff roll and landing roll and
the lower the rate of climb.                                                        Normally, choose only towns indicated by splashes of yellow
                                                                                    on the chart. Do not choose towns represented by a small
Check the fuel consumption charts to determine the rate of                          circle—these may turn out to be only a half-dozen houses. (In
fuel consumption at the estimated flight altitude and power                         isolated areas, however, towns represented by a small circle
settings. Calculate the rate of fuel consumption, and compare                       can be prominent checkpoints.) For this trip, four checkpoints
it with the estimated time for the flight so that refueling points                  have been selected. Checkpoint 1 consists of a tower located
along the route can be included in the plan.                                        east of the course and can be further identified by the highway
                                                                                    and railroad track, which almost parallels the course at this
Charting the Course                                                                 point. Checkpoint 2 is the obstruction just to the west of the
                                                                                    course and can be further identified by Will Rogers World
Once the weather has been checked and some preliminary
                                                                                    Airport, which is directly to the east. Checkpoint 3 is Wiley
planning completed, it is time to chart the course and
                                                                                    Post Airport, which the aircraft should fly directly over.
determine the data needed to accomplish the flight. The
                                                                                    Checkpoint 4 is a private, non-surfaced airport to the west of
following sections provide a logical sequence to follow in
                                                                                    the course and can be further identified by the railroad track
charting the course, complete a flight log, and filing a flight
                                                                                    and highway to the east of the course.
plan. In the following example, a trip is planned based on the
following data and the sectional chart excerpt in Figure 16-25.
                                                                                    The course and areas on either side of the planned route
                                                                                    should be checked to determine if there is any type of airspace
Route of flight: Chickasha Airport direct to Guthrie Airport
                                                                                    with which the pilot should be concerned or which has
   True airspeed (TAS)........................................115 knots             special operational requirements. For this trip, it should be
   Winds aloft...........................................360° at 10 knots           noted that the course passes through a segment of the Class
                                                                                    C airspace surrounding Will Rogers World Airport where the
   Usable fuel.....................................................38 gallons       floor of the airspace is 2,500 feet mean sea level (MSL) and
   Fuel rate...............................................................8 GPH    the ceiling is 5,300 feet MSL (point B). Also, there is Class
   Deviation..................................................................+2°   D airspace from the surface to 3,800 feet MSL surrounding
                                                                                    Wiley Post Airport (point C) during the time the control
Steps in Charting the Course                                                        tower is in operation.
The following is a suggested sequence for arriving at the
                                                                                    Study the terrain and obstructions along the route. This is
pertinent information for the trip. As information is determined,
                                                                                    necessary to determine the highest and lowest elevations,
it may be noted as illustrated in the example of a flight log in
                                                                                    as well as the highest obstruction to be encountered so
Figure 16-26. Where calculations are required, the pilot may
                                                                                    an appropriate altitude that conforms to 14 CFR part 91
use a mathematical formula or a manual or electronic flight
                                                                                    regulations can be selected. If the flight is to be flown
computer. If unfamiliar with the use of a manual or electronic
                                                                                    at an altitude of more than 3,000 feet above the terrain,
computer, it would be advantageous to read the operation
                                                                                    conformance to the cruising altitude appropriate to the
manual and work several practice problems at this point.
                                                                                    direction of flight is required. Check the route for particularly
                                                                                    rugged terrain so it can be avoided. Areas where a takeoff
First, draw a line from Chickasha Airport (point A) directly
                                                                                    or landing is made should be carefully checked for tall
to Guthrie Airport (point F). The course line should begin at
                                                                                    obstructions. Television transmitting towers may extend to
the center of the airport of departure and end at the center of
                                                                                    altitudes over 1,500 feet above the surrounding terrain. It is
the destination airport. If the route is direct, the course line
                                                                                    essential that pilots be aware of their presence and location.
consists of a single straight line. If the route is not direct, it
                                                                                    For this trip, it should be noted that the tallest obstruction is
consists of two or more straight line segments. For example, a

16-18
                                                                                                              F


                                                       4 Checkpoint R
                                                                                                 Highest elevation             E



                                                                                                     D Tallest obstruction


                                   3     Checkpoint




                                                                         C Class D Airspace

                           2 Checkpoint


                                                      B Class C Airspace

               1 Checkpoint


                                                 Course line


                          A                                Route of flight: Chickasha Airport direct to Guthrie Airport
                                                           True airspeed (TAS) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115 knots
                                                           Winds aloft . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 360° at 10 knots
                                                           Usable fuel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 gallons
                                                           Fuel rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8 GPH
                                                           Deviation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +2°




Figure 16-25. Sectional chart excerpt.




                                                                                                                                               16-19
                                                            PILOT’S PLANNING SHEET
  PLANE IDENTIFICATION N123DB                                                                                      DATE

                                WIND
       COURSE         TC                    ALTITUDE WCA TH MAG VAR MH DEV CH TOTAL                                   GS      TOTAL         FUEL    TOTAL
                             Knots From              R+ L-   W+ E-            MILES                                            TIME         RATE     FUEL
  From Chickasha
                      031°    10 360°         8000        3° L 28          7° E       21° +2°         23     53    106 kts    35 min        8 GPH    38 gal
  To Guthrie
  From
  To



                                                                VISUAL FLIGHT LOG
    TIME OF          NAVIGATION     COURSE ALTITUDE                       DISTANCE            ELAPSED TIME             GS        CH          REMARKS
  DEPARTURE             AIDS
     POINT OF          NAVAID                                                      NT                     TED              ED         ED
                                       TO            TO                        POI        E           IMA                AT AL      AT AL      WEATHER
   DEPARTURE           IDENT.                                          NT
                                                                            TO        TIV       EST          UAL      TIM TU     TIM TU
 Chickasha Airport                           FROM           FROM    POI         M ULA                   ACT          S   C      S   C        AIRSPACE ETC.
                        FREQ.                                                CU                                     E A        E A
                                                                                                                    106 kts    023°
   CHECKPOINT                                        8000           11 NM                     6 min
       #1                                                   10000                             +5

                                                                                                                    106 kts    023°
   CHECKPOINT                                        8000           10 NM                     6 min
       #2                                                   10000                    21 NM
                                                                                                                    106 kts    023°
   CHECKPOINT                                        8000           10.5 NM                   6 min
       #3                                                   10000                  31.5 NM
                                                                                                                    106 kts    023°
   CHECKPOINT                                        8000           13 NM                     7 min
       #4                                                   10000                  44.5 NM




 DESTINATION                                                        8.5 NM                    5 min
   Guthrie Airport                                                                   53 NM


Figure 16-26. Pilot’s planning sheet and visual flight log.


part of a series of antennas with a height of 2,749 feet MSL                      The formula is:
(point D). The highest elevation should be located in the
northeast quadrant and is 2,900 feet MSL (point E).                               TC ± WCA = TH ± V = MH ± D = CH

Since the wind is no factor and it is desirable and within the                    The WCA can be determined by using a manual or electronic
aircraft’s capability to fly above the Class C and D airspace                     flight computer. Using a wind of 360° at 10 knots, it is
to be encountered, an altitude of 5,500 feet MSL is chosen.                       determined the WCA is 3° left. This is subtracted from the
This altitude also gives adequate clearance of all obstructions,                  TC making the TH 28°. Next, the pilot should locate the
as well as conforms to the 14 CFR part 91 requirement to                          isogonic line closest to the route of the flight to determine
fly at an altitude of odd thousand plus 500 feet when on a                        variation. Figure 16-25 shows the variation to be 6.30° E
magnetic course between 0 and 179°.                                               (rounded to 7° E), which means it should be subtracted from
                                                                                  the TH, giving an MH of 21°. Next, add 2° to the MH for
Next, the pilot should measure the total distance of the                          the deviation correction. This gives the pilot the compass
course, as well as the distance between checkpoints. The total                    heading of 23°.
distance is 53 NM, and the distance between checkpoints is
as noted on the flight log in Figure 16-26.                                       Now, the GS can be determined. This is done using a manual
                                                                                  or electronic calculator. The GS is determined to be 106
After determining the distance, the TC should be measured.                        knots. Based on this information, the total trip time, as well
If using a plotter, follow the directions on the plotter. The TC                  as time between checkpoints, and the fuel burned can be
is 031°. Once the TH is established, the pilot can determine                      determined. These numbers can be calculated by using a
the compass heading. This is done by following the formula                        manual or electronic calculator.
given earlier in this chapter.



16-20
For this trip, the GS is 106 knots and the total time is 35           met, but actual time cannot be given because of inadequate
minutes (30 minutes plus 5 minutes for climb) with a fuel             communication. The FSS specialist who accepts the flight
burn of 4.7 gallons. Refer to the flight log in Figure 16-26          plan does not inform the pilot of this procedure, however.
for the time between checkpoints.
                                                                      Figure 16-27 shows the flight plan form a pilot files with the
As the trip progresses, the pilot can note headings and time          FSS. When filing a flight plan by telephone or radio, give
and make adjustments in heading, GS, and time.                        the information in the order of the numbered spaces. This
                                                                      enables the FSS specialist to copy the information more
Filing a VFR Flight Plan                                              efficiently. Most of the fields are either self-explanatory
Filing a flight plan is not required by regulations; however, it      or non-applicable to the VFR flight plan (such as item 13).
is a good operating practice since the information contained          However, some fields may need explanation.
in the flight plan can be used in search and rescue in the              •    Item 3 is the aircraft type and special equipment. An
event of an emergency.                                                       example would be C-150/X, which means the aircraft
                                                                             has no transponder. A listing of special equipment
Flight plans can be filed in the air by radio, but it is best to             codes is found in the Aeronautical Information Manual
file a flight plan by phone just before departing. After takeoff,            (AIM).
contact the FSS by radio and give them the takeoff time so
                                                                        •    Item 6 is the proposed departure time in UTC
the flight plan can be activated.
                                                                             (indicated by the “Z”).
When a VFR flight plan is filed, it is held by the FSS until            •    Item 7 is the cruising altitude. Normally, “VFR” can be
1 hour after the proposed departure time and then canceled                   entered in this block since the pilot chooses a cruising
unless: the actual departure time is received; a revised                     altitude to conform to FAA regulations.
proposed departure time is received; or at the time of filing,
the FSS is informed that the proposed departure time is




        X
                        N123DB         C150/X          115          CHK, CHICKASHA
                                                                    AIRPORT               1400                  5500




                    Chickasha direct Guthrie




         GOK, Guthrie Airport
         Guthrie, OK                            35



                                                       Jane Smith
                                                       Aero Air, Oklahoma City, OK (405) 555-4149
             4          45                                                                                             1



            Red/White

                                                                                    McAlester




Figure 16-27. Domestic flight plan form.


                                                                                                                              16-21
  •     Item 8 is the route of flight. If the flight is to be direct,   The prefix “omni-” means all, and an omnidirectional range
        enter the word “direct;” if not, enter the actual route to      is a VHF radio transmitting ground station that projects
        be followed, such as via certain towns or navigation            straight line courses (radials) from the station in all directions.
        aids.                                                           From a top view, it can be visualized as being similar to the
  •     Item 10 is the estimated time en route. In the sample           spokes from the hub of a wheel. The distance VOR radials are
        flight plan, 5 minutes was added to the total time to           projected depends upon the power output of the transmitter.
        allow for the climb.
                                                                        The course or radials projected from the station are referenced
  •     Item 12 is the fuel on board in hours and minutes. This         to MN. Therefore, a radial is defined as a line of magnetic
        is determined by dividing the total usable fuel aboard          bearing extending outward from the VOR station. Radials are
        in gallons by the estimated rate of fuel consumption            identified by numbers beginning with 001, which is 1° east
        in gallons.                                                     of MN and progress in sequence through all the degrees of a
                                                                        circle until reaching 360. To aid in orientation, a compass rose
Remember, there is every advantage in filing a flight plan;             reference to magnetic north is superimposed on aeronautical
but do not forget to close the flight plan upon arrival. This           charts at the station location.
should be done via telephone to avoid radio congestion.
                                                                        VOR ground stations transmit within a VHF frequency band
Ground-Based Navigation                                                 of 108.0–117.95 MHz. Because the equipment is VHF, the
Advances in navigational radio receivers installed in aircraft,         signals transmitted are subject to line-of-sight restrictions.
the development of aeronautical charts that show the exact              Therefore, its range varies in direct proportion to the altitude
location of ground transmitting stations and their frequencies,         of receiving equipment. Generally, the reception range of
along with refined flight deck instrumentation make it                  the signals at an altitude of 1,000 feet above ground level
possible for pilots to navigate with precision to almost any            (AGL) is about 40 to 45 miles. This distance increases with
point desired. Although precision in navigation is obtainable           altitude. [Figure 16-28]
through the proper use of this equipment, beginning pilots
should use this equipment to supplement navigation by visual                                   “A” and “B” signal
reference to the ground (pilotage). This method provides the                                        received
pilot with an effective safeguard against disorientation in the
event of radio malfunction.                                              Only “A” signal received            Only “B” signal received

There are three radio navigation systems available for use
for VFR navigation. These are:
                                                                                              Neither “A” nor “B”
  •     VHF Omnidirectional Range (VOR)                                                        signal received
  •     Nondirectional Radio Beacon (NDB)
  •     Global Positioning System (GPS)

Very High Frequency (VHF) Omnidirectional
Range (VOR)
The VOR system is present in three slightly different
navigation aids (NAVAIDs): VOR, VOR/distance measuring
equipment (DME)(discussed in a later section), and
VORTAC. By itself it is known as a VOR, and it provides                     VOR                                                  VOR
                                                                           station                                              station
magnetic bearing information to and from the station. When                   “A”                                                  “B”
DME is also installed with a VOR, the NAVAID is referred
to as a VOR/DME. When military tactical air navigation
                                                                        Figure 16-28. VHF transmissions follow a line-of-sight course.
(TACAN) equipment is installed with a VOR, the NAVAID
is known as a VORTAC. DME is always an integral part of
a VORTAC. Regardless of the type of NAVAID utilized
(VOR, VOR/DME, or VORTAC), the VOR indicator
behaves the same. Unless otherwise noted in this section,
VOR, VOR/DME, and VORTAC NAVAIDs are all referred
to hereafter as VORs.


16-22
VORs and VORTACs are classed according to operational              Basically, these checks consist of verifying that the VOR
use. There are three classes:                                      radials the aircraft equipment receives are aligned with the
  •    T (Terminal)                                                radials the station transmits. There are not specific tolerances
                                                                   in VOR checks required for VFR flight. But as a guide to
  •    L (Low altitude)                                            assure acceptable accuracy, the required IFR tolerances can
  •    H (High altitude)                                           be used—±4° for ground checks and ±6° for airborne checks.
                                                                   These checks can be performed by the pilot.
The normal useful range for the various classes is shown in
the following table:                                               The VOR transmitting station can be positively identified
                                                                   by its Morse code identification or by a recorded voice
              VOR/VORTAC NAVAIDS
                                                                   identification that states the name of the station followed by
      Normal Usable Altitudes and Radius Distances
                                                                   “VOR.” Many FSSs transmit voice messages on the same
                                                                   frequency that the VOR operates. Voice transmissions should
				                               Distance
                                                                   not be relied upon to identify stations because many FSSs
Class 		  Altitudes 		                 (Miles)
                                                                   remotely transmit over several omniranges that have names
T 		     12,000' and below 		               25
                                                                   different from that of the transmitting FSS. If the VOR is
L 		     Below 18,000' 			                  40
                                                                   out of service for maintenance, the coded identification is
H 		     Below 14,500' 			                  40
                                                                   removed and not transmitted. This serves to alert pilots that
H 		     Within the conterminous 48 states
                                                                   this station should not be used for navigation. VOR receivers
		       only, between 14,500 and 17,999' 100
                                                                   are designed with an alarm flag to indicate when signal
H 		     18,000'—FL 450 		                 130
                                                                   strength is inadequate to operate the navigational equipment.
H 		     FL 450—60,000' 			                100
                                                                   This happens if the aircraft is too far from the VOR or the
                                                                   aircraft is too low and, therefore, is out of the line of sight
The useful range of certain facilities may be less than 50
                                                                   of the transmitting signals.
miles. For further information concerning these restrictions,
refer to the Communication/NAVAID Remarks in the Chart
Supplement U.S.                                                    Using the VOR
                                                                   In review, for VOR radio navigation, there are two
The accuracy of course alignment of VOR radials is                 components required: ground transmitter and aircraft
considered to be excellent. It is generally within plus or minus   receiving equipment. The ground transmitter is located at a
1°. However, certain parts of the VOR receiver equipment           specific position on the ground and transmits on an assigned
deteriorate, affecting its accuracy. This is particularly true     frequency. The aircraft equipment includes a receiver with
at great distances from the VOR station. The best assurance        a tuning device and a VOR or omninavigation instrument.
of maintaining an accurate VOR receiver is periodic checks         The navigation instrument could be a course deviation
and calibrations. VOR accuracy checks are not a regulatory         indicator (CDI), horizontal situation indicator (HSI), or a
requirement for VFR flight. However, to assure accuracy of         radio magnetic indicator (RMI). Each of these instruments
the equipment, these checks should be accomplished quite           indicates the course to the tuned VOR.
frequently and a complete calibration should be performed
each year. The following means are provided for pilots to          Course Deviation Indicator (CDI)
check VOR accuracy:                                                The CDI is found in most training aircraft. It consists of an
                                                                   omnibearing selector (OBS) sometimes referred to as the
  •    FAA VOR test facility (VOT)
                                                                   course selector, a CDI needle (left-right needle), and a TO/
  •    Certified airborne checkpoints                              FROM indicator.
  •    Certified ground checkpoints located on airport
       surfaces                                                    The course selector is an azimuth dial that can be rotated to
                                                                   select a desired radial or to determine the radial over which
If an aircraft has two VOR receivers installed, a dual VOR         the aircraft is flying. In addition, the magnetic course “TO”
receiver check can be made. To accomplish the dual receiver        or “FROM” the station can be determined.
check, a pilot must tune both VOR receivers to the same VOR
ground facility. The maximum permissible variation between         When the course selector is rotated, it moves the CDI or
the two indicated bearings is 4°. A list of the airborne and       needle to indicate the position of the radial relative to the
ground checkpoints is published in the Chart Supplement U.S.       aircraft. If the course selector is rotated until the deviation




                                                                                                                            16-23
needle is centered, the radial (magnetic course “FROM” the
                                                                                                     Glideslope deviation scale
station) or its reciprocal (magnetic course “TO” the station)
can be determined. The course deviation needle also moves
                                                                        To/From indicator                  Course deviation scale
to the right or left if the aircraft is flown or drifting away
from the radial which is set in the course selector.                    Compass card                       Compass warning flag

By centering the needle, the course selector indicates either           NAV warning flag                 Lubber line
the course “FROM” the station or the course “TO” the station.
If the flag displays a “TO,” the course shown on the course
selector must be flown to the station. [Figure 16-29] If                                            DC


“FROM” is displayed and the course shown is followed, the
aircraft is flown away from the station.                                                                   2I
                                                                                GS
                                                                                             I5                         GS
                                                                                              NAV          HDG




                                                                                                                  24
Horizontal Situation Indicator




                                                                                      I2
The HSI is a direction indicator that uses the output
from a flux valve to drive the compass card. The HSI
[Figure 16-30] combines the magnetic compass with




                                                                                                                  30
                                                                                       6
navigation signals and a glideslope. The HSI gives the pilot                                                 33
an indication of the location of the aircraft in relation to the                              3
chosen course or radial.

In Figure 16-30, the aircraft magnetic heading displayed
on the compass card under the lubber line is 184°. The
course select pointer shown is set to 295°; the tail of the             Course select knob
pointer indicates the reciprocal, 115°. The course deviation
bar operates with a VOR/Localizer (VOR/LOC) or GPS
                                                                        Symbolic aircraft                Course deviation bar
navigation receiver to indicate left or right deviations from
the course selected with the course select pointer; operating
                                                                        Heading select bug               Course select pointer
in the same manner, the angular movement of a conventional
VOR/LOC needle indicates deviation from course.
                                                                                                         Heading select knob

The desired course is selected by rotating the course select
pointer, in relation to the compass card, by means of the          Figure 16-30. Horizontal situation indicator.


                                                                   course select knob. The HSI has a fixed aircraft symbol
           Course index              Unreliable signal flag        and the course deviation bar displays the aircraft’s position
                               N          3                        relative to the selected course. The TO/FROM indicator is a
                    33                                             triangular pointer. When the indicator points to the head of the
                                                                   course select pointer, the arrow shows the course selected. If
                                     N
                                                                   properly intercepted and flown, the course takes the aircraft
                                                 6




                                     A   TO
         30




                                     V
              CDI needle                                           to the chosen facility. When the indicator points to the tail
                                                                   of the course, the arrow shows that the course selected, if
                                                                   properly intercepted and flown, takes the aircraft directly
        W




                                                   E




                                                                   away from the chosen facility.
    Approximately 2 degrees
       in the VOR mode
                                                  12




                                         TO/FROM indicator         When the NAV warning flag appears, it indicates no reliable
           24




                                                                   signal is being received. The appearance of the HDG flag
                                           15                      indicates the compass card is not functioning properly.
        OBS
                      21       S
                                                                   Radio Magnetic Indicator (RMI)
                 OBS knob
                                                                   The RMI is a navigational aid providing aircraft magnetic
                                                                   or directional gyro heading and very high frequency
                                                                   omnidirectional range (VOR), GPS, and automatic direction
Figure 16-29. VOR indicator.


16-24
                                                                                                                       7                                      33       N        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                  33    3




                                                                                                                                                    30




                                                                                                                                                                                             30
                                                                                                                                                                                    6




                                                                                                                                                                                                             6
                                                                                                                                                   W
                             S       21




                                                                                                                                                                                    E




                                                                                                                                                                                             24
                HDG 15




                                                                                                                                                                                                             I2
                                                                                                                                                   24
                                                                                                                                                                           FROM
                                                                                                                                                                                                  2I   I5




                                                                                                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                                                                         21        S       15
                                                                                   33                3                                             OBS




                                           24




                                                                           30




                                                                                                          6
               12




                                                                            24




                                                                                                          I2
                                                                                   2I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                                    I5




                                               W
                                                                                                N
         A
                                                                                  33
               E
                                                    A
                                                                                                              3




                                                                      30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3
         D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                    D




                                                                                                                      6
                                               30
                                                                                                                                6




                                                                     W
         F




                                                                                                                                                                                                              30 33
                                                    F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I2 I5
                                                                                                                      E
                  6




                                                                      24
                                                                                                    FROM




                                                                                                                  12
                                          33                          OBS
                                                                             21         S            15                                                                                                               2I 24

                         3       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3        6
                                                                                                                                                         0                                                        N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            E
                                                                                                                                          27




                                                                                                                                                                                                        33
                                                                                   33                3




                                                                                                                                                               6
                        NAV      NAV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12
                                                                           30




                                                                                                                                                                                                        30
                                                                                                          6
                                                                                                                                                     18




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FROM




                                                                                                                                                                                                              W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S




                                                                            24




                                                                                                          I2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24       21
                                                                                   2I               I5                                                                                                      OBS




                                                                                  33            N             3

Figure 16-31. Radio magnetic indicator.
                                                                                                    TO




                                                                      30




                                                                                                                      6
                                                                                                                                                                                         5



                                                                     W




                                                                                                                      E
                                                                      24




                                                                                                                  12
finder (ADF) bearing information. [Figure 16-31] Remote               OBS
                                                                             21         S            15



indicating compasses were developed to compensate for
errors in and limitations of older types of heading indicators.                   33            N            3
                                                                                                                                33        3
The remote compass transmitter is a separate unit usually
                                                                                                    TO



                                                                      30




                                                                                                                      6




                                                                                                                           30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WIND




                                                                                                                                               6
                                                                     W

mounted in a wingtip to eliminate the possibility of magnetic                                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                                      E




                                                                                                                                               I2
                                                                                                                           24
                                                                     24

                                                                                                                                          I5
                                                                                                                                2I



                                                                                                                  12
interference. The RMI consists of a compass card, a heading          OBS
                                                                             21         S            15



index, two bearing pointers, and pointer function switches.
The two pointers are driven by any two combinations of a
                                                                                                N
GPS, an ADF, and/or a VOR. The pilot has the ability to select                    33
                                                                                                    TO
                                                                                                             3
                                                                                                                                33        3
                                                                      30




the navigation aid to be indicated. The pointer indicates the
                                                                                                                      6




                                                                                                                           30




                                                                                                                                               6
                                                                     W




                                                                                                                      E




course to the selected NAVAID or waypoint. In Figure 16-31,                                                                                    I2
                                                                                                                           24
                                                                     24




                                                                                                                                          I5
                                                                                                                                2I
                                                                                                                  12




                                                                             21

the green pointer is indicating the station tuned on the ADF.                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                        S            15
                                                                     OBS




The yellow pointer is indicating the course to a VOR or GPS
waypoint. Note that there is no requirement for a pilot to                                      3
                                                                                                         6
                                                                             3
                                                                           30 3




select a course with the RMI. Only the selected navigation
                                                                                                                  I2




source is pointed to by the needle(s).
                                                                                                          I5




                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                                                                                          BRAVO
                                                                                   2I 2


                                                                                                                                                                                                       BRA    115.0
Tracking With VOR                                                                  33           N
                                                                                                     TO
                                                                                                              3
                                                                                                                                2
                                                                       30




                                                                                                                      6




The following describes a step-by-step procedure for tracking
                                                                      W




                                                                                                                      E




to and from a VOR station using a CDI. Figure 16-32
                                                                      24




                                                                                                                      12




                                                                             21             S           15

illustrates the procedure.
                                                                      OBS




                                                                                       33           N
First, tune the VOR receiver to the frequency of the selected
                                                                                                                  3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                         TO                          33        3
                                                                           30




                                                                                                                            30
                                                                                                                       6




VOR station. For example, 115.0 to receive Bravo VOR.
                                                                                                                                                   6
                                                                       W




                                                                                                                       E



                                                                                                                            24




Next, check the identifiers to verify that the desired VOR
                                                                       24




                                                                                                                                                   I2




                                                                                                                                 2I
                                                                                                                      12




                                                                                                                                          I5
                                                                                  21        S            15

is being received. As soon as the VOR is properly tuned,
                                                                       OBS




the course deviation needle deflects either left or right.        Figure 16-32. Tracking a radial in a crosswind.
Then, rotate the azimuth dial to the course selector until the
course deviation needle centers and the TO-FROM indicator
                                                                  If a heading of 350° is maintained with a wind from the right
indicates “TO.” If the needle centers with a “FROM”
                                                                  as shown, the aircraft drifts to the left of the intended track.
indication, the azimuth should be rotated 180° because, in
                                                                  As the aircraft drifts off course, the VOR course deviation
this case, it is desired to fly “TO” the station. Now, turn the
                                                                  needle gradually moves to the right of center or indicates the
aircraft to the heading indicated on the VOR azimuth dial or
                                                                  direction of the desired radial or track.
course selector, 350° in this example.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16-25
To return to the desired radial, the aircraft heading must be                maintain the course. If the aircraft drifts, fly a heading
altered to the right. As the aircraft returns to the desired track,          to re-intercept the course then apply a correction to
the deviation needle slowly returns to center. When centered,                compensate for wind drift.
the aircraft is on the desired radial and a left turn must be           •    If minor needle fluctuations occur, avoid changing
made toward, but not to the original heading of 350° because                 headings immediately. Wait a moment to see if the
a wind drift correction must be established. The amount of                   needle recenters; if it does not, then you must correctly
correction depends upon the strength of the wind. If the wind                recenter the course to the needle.
velocity is unknown, a trial-and-error method can be used
to find the correct heading. Assume, for this example, a 10°            •    When flying “TO” a station, always fly the selected
correction for a heading of 360° is maintained.                              course with a “TO” indication. When flying “FROM” a
                                                                             station, always fly the selected course with a “FROM”
While maintaining a heading of 360°, assume that the course                  indication. If this is not done, the action of the course
deviation begins to move to the left. This means that the wind               deviation needle is reversed. To further explain this
correction of 10° is too great and the aircraft is flying to the             reverse action, if the aircraft is flown toward a station
right of course. A slight turn to the left should be made to                 with a “FROM” indication or away from a station
permit the aircraft to return to the desired radial.                         with a “TO” indication, the course deviation needle
                                                                             indicates in a direction opposite to that which it should
When the deviation needle centers, a small wind drift                        indicate. For example, if the aircraft drifts to the right
correction of 5° or a heading correction of 355° should be                   of a radial being flown, the needle moves to the right
flown. If this correction is adequate, the aircraft remains                  or points away from the radial. If the aircraft drifts to
on the radial. If not, small variations in heading should be                 the left of the radial being flown, the needle moves
made to keep the needle centered and consequently keep the                   left or in the direction opposite of the radial.
aircraft on the radial.                                                 •    When navigating using the VOR, it is important to
                                                                             fly headings that maintain or re-intercept the course.
As the VOR station is passed, the course deviation needle                    Just turning toward the needle will cause overshooting
fluctuates, then settles down, and the “TO” indication                       the radial and flying an S turn to the left and right of
changes to “FROM.” If the aircraft passes to one side of the                 course.
station, the needle deflects in the direction of the station as
the indicator changes to “FROM.”                                      Time and Distance Check From a Station Using a
                                                                      RMI
Generally, the same techniques apply when tracking                    To compute time and distance from a station, first turn the
outbound as those used for tracking inbound. If the intent is         aircraft to place the RMI bearing pointer on the nearest 90°
to fly over the station and track outbound on the reciprocal of       index. Note the time and maintain the heading. When the
the inbound radial, the course selector should not be changed.        RMI bearing pointer has moved 10°, note the elapsed time
Corrections are made in the same manner to keep the needle            in seconds and apply the formulas in the following example
centered. The only difference is that the omnidirectional             to determine the approximate time and distance from a given
range indicator indicates “FROM.”                                     station. [Figure 16-33]

If tracking outbound on a course other than the reciprocal of         The time from station may also be calculated by using a short
the inbound radial, this new course or radial must be set in          method based on the above formula, if a 10° bearing change
the course selector and a turn made to intercept this course.         is flown. If the elapsed time for the bearing change is noted
After this course is reached, tracking procedures are the same
as previously discussed.
                                                                                  Time-Distance Check Example
Tips on Using the VOR                                                    Time in seconds between bearings
                                                                                                                = Minutes to station
  •     Positively identify the station by its code or voice                 Degrees of bearing change
        identification.
                                                                         For example, if 2 minutes (120 seconds) is required to fly a
  •     Remember that VOR signals are “line-of-sight.” A                 bearing change of 10 degrees, the aircraft is—
        weak signal or no signal at all is received if the aircraft
                                                                                      120
        is too low or too far from the station.                                             = 12 minutes to the station
                                                                                      10
  •     When navigating to a station, determine the inbound
        radial and use this radial. Fly a heading that will           Figure 16-33. Time-distance check example.



16-26
in seconds and a 10° bearing change is made, the time from       Rate of Intercept
the station, in minutes, is determined by counting off one       Rate of intercept, seen by the aviator as bearing pointer or
decimal point. Thus, if 75 seconds are required to fly a 10°     HSI movement, is a result of the following factors:
bearing change, the aircraft is 7.5 minutes from the station.
                                                                   •    The angle at which the aircraft is flown toward a
When the RMI bearing pointer is moving rapidly or when
                                                                        desired course (angle of intercept)
several corrections are required to place the pointer on the
wingtip position, the aircraft is at station passage.              •    True airspeed and wind (GS)
                                                                   •    Distance from the station
The distance from the station is computed by multiplying TAS
or GS (in miles per minute) by the previously determined time    Angle of Intercept
in minutes. For example, if the aircraft is 7.5 minutes from
                                                                 The angle of intercept is the angle between the heading
station, flying at a TAS of 120 knots or 2 NM per minute,
                                                                 of the aircraft (intercept heading) and the desired course.
the distance from station is 15 NM (7.5 × 2 = 15).
                                                                 Controlling this angle by selection/adjustment of the intercept
                                                                 heading is the easiest and most effective way to control
The accuracy of time and distance checks is governed by
                                                                 course interceptions. Angle of intercept must be greater than
existing wind, degree of bearing change, and accuracy of
                                                                 the degrees from course, but should not exceed 90°. Within
timing. The number of variables involved causes the result
                                                                 this limit, make adjustments as needed, to achieve the most
to be only an approximation. However, by flying an accurate
                                                                 desirable rate of intercept.
heading and checking the time and bearing closely, the pilot
can make a reasonable estimate of time and distance from
                                                                 When selecting an intercept heading, the key factor is the
the station.
                                                                 relationship between distance from the station and degrees
                                                                 from the course. Each degree, or radial, is 1 NM wide at
Time and Distance Check From a Station Using a
                                                                 a distance of 60 NM from the station. Width increases or
CDI
                                                                 decreases in proportion to the 60 NM distance. For example,
To compute time and distance from a station using a CDI,
                                                                 1 degree is 2 NM wide at 120 NM—and ½ NM wide at 30
first tune and identify the VOR station and determine the
                                                                 NM. For a given GS and angle of intercept, the resultant rate
radial on which you are located. Then turn inbound and
                                                                 of intercept varies according to the distance from the station.
re-center the needle if necessary. Turn 90° left or right, of
                                                                 When selecting an intercept heading to form an angle of
the inbound course, rotating the OBS to the nearest 10°
                                                                 intercept, consider the following factors:
increment opposite the direction of turn. Maintain heading
and when the CDI centers, note the time. Maintaining the           •    Degrees from course
same heading, rotate the OBS 10° in the same direction as          •    Distance from the station
was done previously and note the elapsed time when the
                                                                   •    True airspeed and wind (GS)
CDI again centers. Time and distance from the station is
determined from the formula shown in Figure 16-34.
                                                                 Distance Measuring Equipment (DME)
Course Intercept                                                 Distance measuring equipment (DME) consists of an ultra
                                                                 high frequency (UHF) navigational aid with VOR/DMEs and
Course interceptions are performed in most phases of
                                                                 VORTACs. It measures, in NM, the slant range distance of
instrument navigation. The equipment used varies, but an
                                                                 an aircraft from a VOR/DME or VORTAC (both hereafter
intercept heading must be flown that results in an angle or
                                                                 referred to as a VORTAC). Although DME equipment is
rate of intercept sufficient for solving a particular problem.
                                                                 very popular, not all aircraft are DME equipped.

           Time-Distance Check Formula                           To utilize DME, the pilot should select, tune, and identify
                                                                 a VORTAC, as previously described. The DME receiver,
              60 x minutes flown between bearing change
  A Time to =                                                    utilizing what is called a “paired frequency” concept,
      station            degrees of bearing change               automatically selects and tunes the UHF DME frequency
                                                                 associated with the VHF VORTAC frequency selected by
                                                                 the pilot. This process is entirely transparent to the pilot.
                               TAS x minutes flown
  B Distance to station =                                        After a brief pause, the DME display shows the slant range
                            degrees of bearing change            distance to or from the VORTAC. Slant range distance is the
                                                                 direct distance between the aircraft and the VORTAC and
                                                                 is therefore affected by aircraft altitude. (Station passage
Figure 16-34. Time-distance check formula using a CDI.           directly over a VORTAC from an altitude of 6,076 feet AGL

                                                                                                                         16-27
would show approximately 1.0 NM on the DME.) DME is a          While the capabilities and methods of operation of VOR/
very useful adjunct to VOR navigation. A VOR radial alone      DME RNAV units differ, there are basic principles of
merely gives line of position information. With DME, a pilot   operation that are common to all. Pilots are urged to study
may precisely locate the aircraft on a given line (radial).    the manufacturer’s operating guide and receive instruction
                                                               prior to the use of VOR/DME RNAV or any unfamiliar
Most DME receivers also provide GS and time-to-station         navigational system. Operational information and limitations
modes of operation. The GS is displayed in knots (NMPH).       should also be sought from placards and the supplement
The time-to-station mode displays the minutes remaining to     section of the AFM/POH.
VORTAC station passage, predicated upon the present GS.
GS and time-to-station information is only accurate when       VOR/DME-based RNAV units operate in at least three
tracking directly to or from a VORTAC. DME receivers           modes: VOR, en route, and approach. A fourth mode, VOR
typically need a minute or two of stabilized flight directly   Parallel, may also be found on some models. The units need
to or from a VORTAC before displaying accurate GS or           both VOR and DME signals to operate in any RNAV mode.
time-to-station information.                                   If the NAVAID selected is a VOR without DME, RNAV
                                                               mode will not function.
Some DME installations have a hold feature that permits a
DME signal to be retained from one VORTAC while the            In the VOR (or non-RNAV) mode, the unit simply functions
course indicator displays course deviation information from    as a VOR receiver with DME capability. [Figure 16-36] The
an ILS or another VORTAC.                                      unit’s display on the VOR indicator is conventional in all
                                                               respects. For operation on established airways or any other
VOR/DME RNAV                                                   ordinary VOR navigation, the VOR mode is used.
Area navigation (RNAV) permits electronic course guidance
on any direct route between points established by the pilot.   To utilize the unit’s RNAV capability, the pilot selects and
While RNAV is a generic term that applies to a variety         establishes a waypoint or a series of waypoints to define a
of NAVAIDS, such as GPS and others, this section deals         course. A VORTAC (or VOR/DME) needs to be selected
with VOR/DME-based RNAV. VOR/DME RNAV is not a                 as a NAVAID, since both radial and distance signals are
separate ground-based NAVAID, but a method of navigation       available from these stations. To establish a waypoint, a
using VOR/DME and VORTAC signals specially processed           point somewhere within the service range of a VORTAC is
by the aircraft’s RNAV computer. [Figure 16-35]                defined on the basis of radial and distance. Once the waypoint
                                                               is entered into the unit and the RNAV en route mode is
NOTE: In this section, the term “VORTAC” also includes         selected, the CDI displays course guidance to the waypoint,
VOR/DME NAVAIDs.                                               not the original VORTAC. DME also displays distance to
                                                               the waypoint. Many units have the capability to store several
In its simplest form, VOR/DME RNAV allows the pilot to         waypoints, allowing them to be programmed prior to flight,
electronically move VORTACs around to more convenient          if desired, and called up in flight.
locations. Once electronically relocated, they are referred
to as waypoints. These waypoints are described as a            RNAV waypoints are entered into the unit in magnetic
combination of a selected radial and distance within the       bearings (radials) of degrees and tenths (i.e., 275.5°) and
service volume of the VORTAC to be used. These waypoints       distances in NM and tenths (i.e., 25.2 NM). When plotting
allow a straight course to be flown between almost any         RNAV waypoints on an aeronautical chart, pilots find it
origin and destination, without regard to the orientation of
VORTACs or the existence of airways.
                                                                            OFFSET                         EN ROUTE

                                                                                         3             3

                                                                  R        BEARING             LOAD        DISTANCE
                                                                  N
                                                                  A
                                                                  V
                                                                                          4       4
                                                                            3 3 4         8           8    2 7 9
                                                                                          12      12

    Area Navigation Direct Route

                                                               Figure 16-36. RNAV controls.
Figure 16-35. Flying an RNAV course.




16-28
difficult to measure to that level of accuracy, and in practical   of 200 to 415 kHz. The frequencies are readily available on
application, it is rarely necessary. A number of flight planning   aeronautical charts or in the Chart Supplement U.S.
publications publish airport coordinates and waypoints with
this precision and the unit accepts those figures. There is a      All radio beacons, except compass locators, transmit
subtle but important difference in CDI operation and display       a continuous three-letter identification in code, except
in the RNAV modes.                                                 during voice transmissions. A compass locator, which is
                                                                   associated with an instrument landing system, transmits a
In the RNAV modes, course deviation is displayed in terms          two-letter identification.
of linear deviation. In the RNAV en route mode, maximum
deflection of the CDI typically represents 5 NM on either          Standard broadcast stations can also be used in conjunction
side of the selected course without regard to distance from the    with ADF. Positive identification of all radio stations is
waypoint. In the RNAV approach mode, maximum deflection            extremely important and this is particularly true when using
of the CDI typically represents 1¼ NM on either side of the        standard broadcast stations for navigation.
selected course. There is no increase in CDI sensitivity as the
aircraft approaches a waypoint in RNAV mode.                       NDBs have one advantage over the VOR in that low or
                                                                   medium frequencies are not affected by line-of-sight. The
The RNAV approach mode is used for instrument approaches.          signals follow the curvature of the Earth; therefore, if the
Its narrow scale width (¼ of the en route mode) permits very       aircraft is within the range of the station, the signals can be
precise tracking to or from the selected waypoint. In VFR          received regardless of altitude.
cross-country navigation, tracking a course in the approach
mode is not desirable because it requires a great deal of          The following table gives the class of NDB stations, their
attention and soon becomes tedious.                                power, and their usable range:

A fourth, lesser-used mode on some units is the VOR                    NONDIRECTIONAL RADIO BEACON (NDB)
Parallel mode. This permits the CDI to display linear                     (Usable radius distances for all altitudes)
(not angular) deviation as the aircraft tracks to and from
VORTACs. It derives its name from permitting the pilot             			                          Power     Distance
to offset (or parallel) a selected course or airway at a fixed     Class			                    (Watts)     (Miles)
distance of the pilot’s choosing, if desired. The VOR parallel     Compass Locator             Under 25             15
mode has the same effect as placing a waypoint directly            MH 			                      Under 50             25
over an existing VORTAC. Some pilots select the VOR                H 			                       50–1999             *5 0

parallel mode when utilizing the navigation (NAV) tracking         HH                        2000 or more           75
function of their autopilot for smoother course following
near the VORTAC.                                                   *Service range of individual facilities may be less than

                                                                   50 miles.
Navigating an aircraft with VOR/DME-based RNAV can be
confusing, and it is essential that the pilot become familiar      One of the disadvantages that should be considered when
with the equipment installed. It is not unknown for pilots to      using low frequency (LF) for navigation is that LF signals are
operate inadvertently in one of the RNAV modes when the            very susceptible to electrical disturbances, such as lightning.
operation was not intended, by overlooking switch positions        These disturbances create excessive static, needle deviations,
or annunciators. The reverse has also occurred with a pilot        and signal fades. There may be interference from distant
neglecting to place the unit into one of the RNAV modes by         stations. Pilots should know the conditions under which these
overlooking switch positions or annunciators. As always, the       disturbances can occur so they can be more alert to possible
prudent pilot is not only familiar with the equipment used,        interference when using the ADF.
but never places complete reliance in just one method of
navigation when others are available for cross-check.              Basically, the ADF aircraft equipment consists of a tuner,
                                                                   which is used to set the desired station frequency, and the
Automatic Direction Finder (ADF)                                   navigational display.
Many general aviation-type aircraft are equipped with ADF
radio receiving equipment. To navigate using the ADF,              The navigational display consists of a dial upon which the
the pilot tunes the receiving equipment to a ground station        azimuth is printed and a needle which rotates around the
known as a nondirectional radio beacon (NDB). The NDB              dial and points to the station to which the receiver is tuned.
stations normally operate in a low or medium frequency band


                                                                                                                           16-29
Some of the ADF dials can be rotated to align the                                                                                  Keep in mind that the needle of fixed azimuth points to the
azimuth with the aircraft heading; others are fixed with 0°                                                                        station in relation to the nose of the aircraft. If the needle
representing the nose of the aircraft and 180° representing                                                                        is deflected 30° to the left for a relative bearing of 330°,
the tail. Only the fixed azimuth dial is discussed in this                                                                         this means that the station is located 30° left. If the aircraft
handbook. [Figure 16-37]                                                                                                           is turned left 30°, the needle moves to the right 30° and
                                                                                                                                   indicates a relative bearing of 0° meaning that the aircraft
Figure 16-38 illustrates terms that are used with the ADF                                                                          is pointing toward the station. If the pilot continues flight
and should be understood by the pilot.                                                                                             toward the station keeping the needle on 0°, the procedure
                                                                                                                                   is called homing to the station. If a crosswind exists, the
To determine the magnetic bearing “FROM” the station,                                                                              ADF needle continues to drift away from zero. To keep the
180° is added to or subtracted from the magnetic bearing to                                                                        needle on zero, the aircraft must be turned slightly resulting
the station. This is the reciprocal bearing and is used when                                                                       in a curved flight path to the station. Homing to the station
plotting position fixes.                                                                                                           is a common procedure but may result in drifting downwind,
                                                                                                                                   thus lengthening the distance to the station.

                                                                                                                                   Tracking to the station requires correcting for wind drift and
                                                                                                                                   results in maintaining flight along a straight track or bearing
                                                                                                                                   to the station. When the wind drift correction is established,
                                                                                                                                   the ADF needle indicates the amount of correction to the
                                                                                                                                   right or left. For instance, if the magnetic bearing to the
                                                                                                                                   station is 340°, a correction for a left crosswind would
                                                3                   6
                                                                                                                                   result in a magnetic heading of 330°, and the ADF needle
                                                                                        E                                          would indicate 10° to the right or a relative bearing of 010°.
                                          E-W
                             N
                            N-S




                                                                                                                                   [Figure 16-39]
                                                                                            12
                           33




                                                                                            15
                           30




                                                                                                                                   When tracking away from the station, wind corrections are
                                                                                        S




                                        W
                                                24                 21
                                                                                                                                   made similar to tracking to the station, but the ADF needle
                                                                                                                                   points toward the tail of the aircraft or the 180° position on
                                                                                                                                   the azimuth dial. Attempting to keep the ADF needle on
                                                                                                                                   the 180° position during winds results in the aircraft flying
                                                                                                                                   a curved flight leading further and further from the desired
                                                                                                                                   track. When tracking outbound, corrections for wind should
Figure 16-37. ADF with fixed azimuth and magnetic compass.                                                                         be made in the direction opposite of that in which the needle
                                                                                                                                   is pointing.

                                                                                                                                   Although the ADF is not as popular as the VOR for radio
                                                         Magnetic North




                                                                                                                                   navigation, with proper precautions and intelligent use, the
                                                                                                        Ma                         ADF can be a valuable aid to navigation.
                                                                                                           gn
                                                                                                             e
                                                                                                   g
                                                                                                  din


                                                                                                              tic




                                                                                                                                   Global Positioning System
                                                                                              ea




                                                                                                           be
                                                                                             ch




                                                                                                             ar i




                                                                                                                                   The GPS is a satellite-based radio navigation system.
                                                                                                         Re
                                                                                            eti
                                                                                        gn




                                                                                                                 lat

                                                                                                                 ng
                                                                                Ma




                                                                                                                                   Its RNAV guidance is worldwide in scope. There are no
                                                                                                                    ive

                                                                                                                     to sta




                                                                          33
                                                                                                                        bearing




                                                                                                                                   symbols for GPS on aeronautical charts as it is a space-based
                                                              30                    N
                                                    W




                                                                                        3




                                                                                                                            tion
                                                 24




                                                                                                                                   system with global coverage. Development of the system is
                                                                                        6
                                                    21




                                                                                        E




                                                          S                    12
                                                                   15



                                                                                                                                   underway so that GPS is capable of providing the primary
                                  N-S
                                                                                                                                   means of electronic navigation. Portable and yoke-mounted
                                                                                                                                   units are proving to be very popular in addition to those
                                        E-W




  Radio station
                                                                                                                                   permanently installed in the aircraft. Extensive navigation
                                                                                                                                   databases are common features in aircraft GPS receivers.



Figure 16-38. ADF terms.




16-30
                                                                                 Defense (DOD) is responsible for operating the GPS satellite
                                                                                 constellation and monitors the GPS satellites to ensure proper
                                                                                 operation.

       33
        0°
                                                                                 The status of a GPS satellite is broadcast as part of the data
                 N
                      3
                           6
                                                                                 message transmitted by the satellite. GPS status information
                                                                                 is also available from the U.S. Coast Guard navigation
            33




                               E
                               12
            30




                                                                                 information service at (703) 313-5907 or online at www.
                               15
             W




                                                                                 navcen.uscg.gov. Additionally, satellite status is available
                 24        S
                      21




                                                                                 through the NOTAM system.

                                                                                 The GPS receiver verifies the integrity (usability) of the
                                                                                 signals received from the GPS constellation through receiver
                                                                                 autonomous integrity monitoring (RAIM) to determine if
                                                                                 a satellite is providing corrupted information. At least one
                                                                                 satellite, in addition to those required for navigation, must
                                                                                 be in view for the receiver to perform the RAIM function;
                                                                                 thus, RAIM needs a minimum of five satellites in view or
                                    33
                                    0°




                                                                                 four satellites and a barometric altimeter (baro-aiding) to
                                              N
                                                   3
                                                        6
                                                                                 detect an integrity anomaly. For receivers capable of doing
                                                                                 so, RAIM needs six satellites in view (or five satellites with
                                         33




                                                            E
                                                            12
                                         30




                                                                                 baro-aiding) to isolate the corrupt satellite signal and remove
                                                            15
                                          W




                                                                                 it from the navigation solution. Baro-aiding is a method of
                                              24        S
                                                   21




                                                                                 augmenting the GPS integrity solution by using a nonsatellite
                                                                                 input source. GPS derived altitude should not be relied upon
                                                                 340




                                                                                 to determine aircraft altitude since the vertical error can
                                                                  ° be




                                                                                 be quite large and no integrity is provided. To ensure that
                                                                   arin




                                                                                 baro-aiding is available, the current altimeter setting must be
                                                                       g to




                                                                                 entered into the receiver as described in the operating manual.
                                                                         sta
                                                                          tion




                                                                                 RAIM messages vary somewhat between receivers; however,
                                                                                 generally there are two types. One type indicates that there
                                                                                 are not enough satellites available to provide RAIM integrity
Figure 16-39. ADF tracking.                                                      monitoring and another type indicates that the RAIM integrity
                                                                                 monitor has detected a potential error that exceeds the limit
The GPS is a satellite radio navigation and time dissemination                   for the current phase of flight. Without RAIM capability, the
system developed and operated by the U.S. Department of                          pilot has no assurance of the accuracy of the GPS position.
Defense (DOD). Civilian interface and GPS system status
is available from the U.S. Coast Guard.                                          Selective Availability
                                                                                 Selective Availability (SA) is a method by which the accuracy
It is not necessary to understand the technical aspects of                       of GPS is intentionally degraded. This feature is designed
GPS operation to use it in VFR/IFR navigation. It does differ                    to deny hostile use of precise GPS positioning data. SA was
significantly from conventional, ground-based electronic                         discontinued on May 1, 2000, but many GPS receivers are
navigation and awareness of those differences is important.                      designed to assume that SA is still active.
Awareness of equipment approvals and limitations is critical
to the safety of flight.                                                         The baseline GPS satellite constellation consists of 24
                                                                                 satellites positioned in six earth-centered orbital planes
The GPS navigation system broadcasts a signal that is used                       with four operation satellites and a spare satellite slot in
by receivers to determine precise position anywhere in the                       each orbital plane. The system can support a constellation
world. The receiver tracks multiple satellites and determines                    of up to thirty satellites in orbit. The orbital period of a GPS
a pseudorange measurement to determine the user location.                        satellite is one-half of a sidereal day or 11 hours 58 minutes.
A minimum of four satellites is necessary to establish an                        The orbits are nearly circular and equally spaced about the
accurate three-dimensional position. The Department of                           equator at a 60-degree separation with an inclination of


                                                                                                                                          16-31
55 degrees relative to the equator. The orbital radius (i.e.        each type of receiver installation or use must be understood
distance from the center of mass of the earth to the satellite)     by the pilot to avoid misusing navigation information. In all
is approximately 26,600 km.                                         cases, VFR pilots should never rely solely on one system
                                                                    of navigation. GPS navigation must be integrated with
With the baseline satellite constellation, users with a clear       other forms of electronic navigation, as well as pilotage
view of the sky have a minimum of four satellites in view.          and dead reckoning. Only through the integration of these
It is more likely that a user would see six to eight satellites.    techniques can the VFR pilot ensure accuracy in navigation.
The satellites broadcast ranging signals and navigation data        Some critical concerns in VFR use of GPS include RAIM
allowing users to measure their pseudoranges in order to            capability, database currency, and antenna location.
estimate their position, velocity and time, in a passive, listen-
only mode. The receiver uses data from a minimum of four            RAIM Capability
satellites above the mask angle (the lowest angle above the         Many VFR GPS receivers and all hand-held units are not
horizon at which a receiver can use a satellite). The exact         equipped with RAIM alerting capability. Loss of the required
number of satellites operating at any one particular time           number of satellites in view, or the detection of a position
varies depending on the number of satellite outages and             error, cannot be displayed to the pilot by such receivers.
operational spares in orbit. For current status of the GPS          In receivers with no RAIM capability, no alert would
constellation, please visit http://tycho.usno.navy.mil/gpscurr.     be provided to the pilot that the navigation solution had
html. [Figure 16-40]                                                deteriorated and an undetected navigation error could occur.
                                                                    A systematic cross-check with other navigation techniques
VFR Use of GPS                                                      would identify this failure and prevent a serious deviation.
GPS navigation has become a great asset to VFR pilots
providing increased navigation capability and enhanced              In many receivers, an updatable database is used for
situational awareness while reducing operating costs due            navigation fixes, airports, and instrument procedures.
to greater ease in flying direct routes. While GPS has many         These databases must be maintained to the current update
benefits to the VFR pilot, care must be exercised to ensure         for IFR operation, but no such requirement exists for VFR
that system capabilities are not exceeded.                          use. However, in many cases, the database drives a moving
                                                                    map display that indicates Special Use Airspace and the
Types of receivers used for GPS navigation under VFR are            various classes of airspace in addition to other operational
varied from a full IFR installation being used to support a         information. Without a current database, the moving map
VFR flight to a VFR only installation (in either a VFR or IFR       display may be outdated and offer erroneous information
capable aircraft) to a hand-held receiver. The limitations of       to VFR pilots wishing to fly around critical airspace areas,
                                                                    such as a Restricted Area or a Class B airspace segment.
                                                                    Numerous pilots have ventured into airspace they were trying
                                                                    to avoid by using an outdated database. If there is not a current
                                                                    database in the receiver, disregard the moving map display
                                                                    when making critical navigation decisions.

                                                                    In addition, waypoints are added, removed, relocated, or re-
                                                                    named as required to meet operational needs. When using
                                                                    GPS to navigate relative to a named fix, a current database
                                                                    must be used to properly locate a named waypoint. Without
                                                                    the update, it is the pilot’s responsibility to verify the
                                                                    waypoint location referencing to an official current source,
                                                                    such as the Chart Supplement U.S., sectional chart, or en
                                                                    route chart.

                                                                    In many VFR installations of GPS receivers, antenna location
                                                                    is more a matter of convenience than performance. In IFR
                                                                    installations, care is exercised to ensure that an adequate
                                                                    clear view is provided for the antenna to communicate with
                                                                    satellites. If an alternate location is used, some portion of
                                                                    the aircraft may block the view of the antenna increasing the
Figure 16-40. Satellite constellation.                              possibility of losing navigation signal.


16-32
This is especially true in the case of hand-held receivers. The     Another way to minimize head-down time is to become very
use of hand-held receivers for VFR operations is a growing          familiar with the receiver’s operation. Most receivers are not
trend, especially among rental pilots. Typically, suction cups      intuitive. The pilot must take the time to learn the various
are used to place the GPS antennas on the inside of aircraft        keystrokes, knob functions, and displays that are used in
windows. While this method has great utility, the antenna           the operation of the receiver. Some manufacturers provide
location is limited by aircraft structure for optimal reception     computer-based tutorials or simulations of their receivers.
of available satellites. Consequently, signal loss may occur        Take the time to learn about the particular unit before using
in certain situations where aircraft-satellite geometry causes      it in flight.
a loss of navigation signal. These losses, coupled with a lack
of RAIM capability, could present erroneous position and            In summary, be careful not to rely on GPS to solve all VFR
navigation information with no warning to the pilot.                navigational problems. Unless an IFR receiver is installed in
                                                                    accordance with IFR requirements, no standard of accuracy
While the use of hand-held GPS receivers for VFR operations         or integrity can be assured. While the practicality of GPS is
is not limited by regulation, modification of the aircraft, such    compelling, the fact remains that only the pilot can navigate the
as installing a panel- or yoke-mounted holder, is governed by       aircraft, and GPS is just one of the pilot’s tools to do the job.
14 CFR part 43. Pilots should consult a mechanic to ensure
compliance with the regulation and a safe installation.             VFR Waypoints
                                                                    VFR waypoints provide VFR pilots with a supplementary
Tips for Using GPS for VFR Operations                               tool to assist with position awareness while navigating
Always check to see if the unit has RAIM capability. If no          visually in aircraft equipped with area navigation receivers.
RAIM capability exists, be suspicious of a GPS displayed            VFR waypoints should be used as a tool to supplement current
position when any disagreement exists with the position             navigation procedures. The use of VFR waypoints include
derived from other radio navigation systems, pilotage, or           providing navigational aids for pilots unfamiliar with an area,
dead reckoning.                                                     waypoint definition of existing reporting points, enhanced
                                                                    navigation in and around Class B and Class C airspace, and
Check the currency of the database, if any. If expired, update      enhanced navigation around Special Use Airspace. VFR
the database using the current revision. If an update of an         pilots should rely on appropriate and current aeronautical
expired database is not possible, disregard any moving map          charts published specifically for visual navigation. If
display of airspace for critical navigation decisions. Be aware     operating in a terminal area, pilots should take advantage of
that named waypoints may no longer exist or may have been           the Terminal Area Chart available for the area, if published.
relocated since the database expired. At a minimum, the             The use of VFR waypoints does not relieve the pilot of any
waypoints to be used should be verified against a current           responsibility to comply with the operational requirements
official source, such as the Chart Supplement U.S. or a             of 14 CFR part 91.
Sectional Aeronautical Chart.
                                                                    VFR waypoint names (for computer entry and flight plans)
While a hand-held GPS receiver can provide excellent                consist of five letters beginning with the letters “VP” and are
navigation capability to VFR pilots, be prepared for                retrievable from navigation databases. The VFR waypoint
intermittent loss of navigation signal, possibly with no RAIM       names are not intended to be pronounceable, and they are not
warning to the pilot. If mounting the receiver in the aircraft,     for use in ATC communications. On VFR charts, a stand-
be sure to comply with 14 CFR part 43.                              alone VFR waypoint is portrayed using the same four-point
                                                                    star symbol used for IFR waypoints. VFR waypoint collocated
Plan flights carefully before taking off. If navigating to user-    with a visual checkpoint on the chart is identified by a small
defined waypoints, enter them prior to flight, not on the fly.      magenta flag symbol. A VFR waypoint collocated with a
Verify the planned flight against a current source, such as a       visual checkpoint is pronounceable based on the name of the
current sectional chart. There have been cases in which one         visual checkpoint and may be used for ATC communications.
pilot used waypoints created by another pilot that were not         Each VFR waypoint name appears in parentheses adjacent
where the pilot flying was expecting. This generally resulted       to the geographic location on the chart. Latitude/longitude
in a navigation error. Minimize head-down time in the aircraft      data for all established VFR waypoints may be found in the
and maintain a sharp lookout for traffic, terrain, and obstacles.   appropriate regional Chart Supplement U.S.
Just a few minutes of preparation and planning on the ground
makes a great difference in the air.




                                                                                                                             16-33
When filing VFR flight plans, use the five-letter identifier as     information to plot the aircraft position and then give vectors
a waypoint in the route of flight section if there is an intended   to a suitable landing site. If the situation becomes threatening,
course change at that point or if used to describe the planned      transmit the situation on the emergency frequency 121.5 MHz
route of flight. This VFR filing would be similar to VOR use        and set the transponder to 7700. Most facilities, and even
in a route of flight. Pilots must use the VFR waypoints only        airliners, monitor the emergency frequency.
when operating under VFR conditions.
                                                                    Flight Diversion
Any VFR waypoints intended for use during a flight should           There may come a time when a pilot is not able to make it to
be loaded into the receiver while on the ground and prior to        the planned destination. This can be the result of unpredicted
departure. Once airborne, pilots should avoid programming           weather conditions, a system malfunction, or poor preflight
routes or VFR waypoint chains into their receivers.                 planning. In any case, the pilot needs to be able to safely
                                                                    and efficiently divert to an alternate destination. Risk
Pilots should be especially vigilant for other traffic while        management procedures become a priority during any type
operating near VFR waypoints. The same effort to see and            of flight diversion and should be used the pilot. For example,
avoid other aircraft near VFR waypoints is necessary, as            the hazards of inadvertent VFR into IMC involve a risk that
is the case when operating near VORs and NDBs. In fact,             the pilot can identify and assess and then mitigate through a
the increased accuracy of navigation through the use of             pre-planned or in-flight diversion around hazardous weather.
GPS demands even greater vigilance as there are fewer               Before any cross-country flight, check the charts for airports
off-course deviations among different pilots and receivers.         or suitable landing areas along or near the route of flight.
When operating near a VFR waypoint, use all available               Also, check for navigational aids that can be used during a
ATC services, even if outside a class of airspace where             diversion. Risk management is explained in greater detail in
communications are required. Regardless of the class of             Chapter 2, Aeronautical Decision-making.
airspace, monitor the available ATC frequency closely for
information on other aircraft operating in the vicinity. It is      Computing course, time, speed, and distance information in
also a good idea to turn on landing light(s) when operating         flight requires the same computations used during preflight
near a VFR waypoint to make the aircraft more conspicuous           planning. However, because of the limited flight deck space
to other pilots, especially when visibility is reduced.             and because attention must be divided between flying the
                                                                    aircraft, making calculations, and scanning for other aircraft,
Lost Procedures                                                     take advantage of all possible shortcuts and rule-of-thumb
Getting lost in flight is a potentially dangerous situation,        computations.
especially when low on fuel. If a pilot becomes lost, there
are some good common sense procedures to follow. If a town          When in flight, it is rarely practical to actually plot a course
or city cannot be seen, the first thing to do is climb, being       on a sectional chart and mark checkpoints and distances.
mindful of traffic and weather conditions. An increase in           Furthermore, because an alternate airport is usually not very far
altitude increases radio and navigation reception range and         from your original course, actual plotting is seldom necessary.
also increases radar coverage. If flying near a town or city, it
may be possible to read the name of the town on a water tower.      The course to an alternate destination can be measured
                                                                    accurately with a protractor or plotter but can also be
If the aircraft has a navigational radio, such as a VOR or ADF      measured with reasonable accuracy using a straightedge
receiver, it can be possible to determine position by plotting      and the compass rose depicted around VOR stations. This
an azimuth from two or more navigational facilities. If GPS         approximation can be made on the basis of a radial from a
is installed, or a pilot has a portable aviation GPS on board,      nearby VOR or an airway that closely parallels the course
it can be used to determine the position and the location of        to your alternate destination. However, remember that the
the nearest airport.                                                magnetic heading associated with a VOR radial or printed
                                                                    airway is outbound from the station. To find the course to
Communicate with any available facility using frequencies           the station, it may be necessary to determine the reciprocal of
shown on the sectional chart. If contact is made with a             that heading. It is typically easier to navigate to an alternate
controller, radar vectors may be offered. Other facilities may      airport that has a VOR or NDB facility on the field.
offer direction finding (DF) assistance. To use this procedure,
the controller requests the pilot to hold down the transmit         After selecting the most appropriate alternate destination,
button for a few seconds and then release it. The controller        approximate the magnetic course to the alternate using a
may ask the pilot to change directions a few times and repeat       compass rose or airway on the sectional chart. If time permits,
the transmit procedure. This gives the controller enough            try to start the diversion over a prominent ground feature.


16-34
However, in an emergency, divert promptly toward your
alternate destination. Attempting to complete all plotting,
measuring, and computations involved before diverting to the
alternate destination may only aggravate an actual emergency.

Once established on course, note the time, and then use the
winds aloft nearest to your diversion point to calculate a
heading and GS. Once a GS has been calculated, determine a
new arrival time and fuel consumption. Give priority to flying
the aircraft while dividing attention between navigation and
planning. When determining an altitude to use while diverting,
consider cloud heights, winds, terrain, and radio reception.

Chapter Summary
This chapter has discussed the fundamentals of VFR
navigation. Beginning with an introduction to the charts that
can be used for navigation to the more technically advanced
concept of GPS, there is one aspect of navigation that remains
the same—the pilot is responsible for proper planning and
the execution of that planning to ensure a safe flight.




                                                                 16-35
