
Chapter 3. Airspace
AIM
AIM by Chapter Number
Chapter 0. General InformationChapter 1. Air NavigationChapter 2. Aeronautical Lighting and Other Airport Visual AidsChapter 3. AirspaceChapter 4. Air Traffic ControlChapter 5. Air Traffic ProceduresChapter 6. Emergency ProceduresChapter 7. Safety of FlightChapter 8. Medical Facts for PilotsChapter 9. Aeronautical Charts and Related PublicationsChapter 10. Helicopter OperationsChapter 11. Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS)Appendix 1Appendix 2Appendix 3Appendix 4Appendix 5ATPUBS
AIM by Topic
                General Information
                    Explanation of Changes
                Air Navigation
                    Navigation Aids
                    Performance-Based Navigation (PBN) and Area Navigation (RNAV)
                Aeronautical Lighting and Other Airport Visual Aids
                    Airport Lighting Aids
                    Air Navigation and Obstruction Lighting
                    Airport Marking Aids and Signs
                Airspace
                    General
                    Controlled Airspace
                    Class G Airspace
                    Special Use Airspace
                    Other Airspace Areas
                Air Traffic Control
                    Services Available to Pilots
                    Radio Communications Phraseology 
and Techniques
                    Airport Operations
                    ATC Clearances and Aircraft Separation
                    Surveillance Systems
                    Operational Policy/Procedures for Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum (RVSM) in the Domestic U.S., Alaska, Offshore Airspace and the San Juan FIR
                    Operational Policy/Procedures for the Gulf of America 50 NM Lateral Separation Initiative
                Air Traffic Procedures
                    Preflight
                    Departure Procedures
                    En Route Procedures
                    Arrival Procedures
                    Pilot/Controller Roles and Responsibilities
                    National Security and Interception Procedures
                Emergency Procedures
                    General
                    Emergency Services Available to Pilots
                    Distress and Urgency Procedures
                    Two‐way Radio Communications Failure
                    Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting Communications
                Safety of Flight
                    Meteorology
                    Barometric Altimeter Errors and Setting Procedures
                    Cold Temperature Barometric Altimeter Errors, Setting Procedures and Cold Temperature Airports (CTA)
                    Wake Turbulence
                    Bird Hazards and Flight Over National Refuges, Parks, and Forests
                    Potential Flight Hazards
                    Safety, Accident, and Hazard Reports
                Medical Facts for Pilots
                    Fitness for Flight
                Aeronautical Charts and Related Publications
                    Types of Charts Available
                Helicopter Operations
                    Helicopter IFR Operations
                    Special Operations
                Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS)
                    General
                    Small Unmanned Aircraft System (sUAS)
                    Large UAS (MGOW 55 Pounds or More)
                    Airspace Access for UAS
                    UAS Pilot Testing, Certification and Responsibilities
                    Advanced Air Mobility
                    UAS Operations on Airports
                    Other Information and Best Practices
            Appendix 1
            Appendix 2
            Appendix 3
            Appendix 4
            Appendix 5
Airspace
Class G Airspace
Chapter 3. Airspace
Section 3. Class G Airspace
3-3-1. General
Class G airspace (uncontrolled) is that portion of airspace that has not been designated as Class A, Class B, Class C, Class D, or Class E airspace.
3-3-2. VFR Requirements
Rules governing VFR flight have been adopted to assist the pilot in meeting the responsibility to see and avoid other aircraft. Minimum flight visibility and distance from clouds required for VFR flight are contained in 14 CFR section 91.155. (See TBL 3-1-1.)
3-3-3. IFR Requirements
Title 14 CFR specifies the pilot and aircraft equipment requirements for IFR flight. Pilots are reminded that in addition to altitude or flight level requirements, 14 CFR section 91.177 includes a requirement to remain at least 1,000 feet (2,000 feet in designated mountainous terrain) above the highest obstacle within a horizontal distance of 4 nautical miles from the course to be flown.
IFR Altitudes. (See TBL 3-3-1.)
TBL 3-3-3IFR Altitudes Class G Airspace
If your magnetic course (ground track) is:
And you are below 18,000 feet MSL, fly:
0° to 179°
Odd thousands MSL, (3,000; 5,000; 7,000, etc.)
180° to 359°
Even thousands MSL, (2,000; 4,000; 6,000, etc.)
Previous | Top | Next
AIM | 
ATPUBS | 
FAA | 
              Send your comments regarding this website.
            