https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/instrumentation/
 Instrumentation
How OpenTelemetry facilitates instrumentation
For a system to be observable, it must be instrumented: that is, code
from the system’s components must emit signals, such as traces,
metrics, and logs.
Using OpenTelemetry, you can instrument your code in two primary ways:

- Code-based solutions via official
APIs and SDKs for most languages

- Zero-code solutions
Code-based solutions allow you to get deeper insight and rich telemetry from
your application itself. They let you use the OpenTelemetry API to generate
telemetry from your application, which acts as an essential complement to the
telemetry generated by zero-code solutions.
Zero-code solutions are great for getting started, or when you can’t modify
the application you need to get telemetry out of. They provide rich telemetry
from libraries you use and/or the environment your application runs in. Another
way to think of it is that they provide information about what’s happening at
the edges of your application.
You can use both solutions simultaneously.

## [#additional-opentelemetry-benefits] Additional OpenTelemetry Benefits
OpenTelemetry provides more than just zero-code and code-based telemetry
solutions. The following things are also a part of OpenTelemetry:

- Libraries can leverage the OpenTelemetry API as a dependency, which will have
no impact on applications using that library, unless the OpenTelemetry SDK is
imported.

- For each of the signals you have several methods at your disposal to
create, process, and export them.

- With context propagation built into the
implementations, you can correlate signals regardless of where they are
generated.

- Resources and
Instrumentation Scopes allow grouping of signals,
by different entities, like, the host,
operating system or
K8s cluster

- Each language-specific implementation of the API and SDK follows the
requirements and expectations of the
OpenTelemetry specification.

- Semantic Conventions provide a common naming
schema that can be used for standardization across code bases and platforms.
Zero-code
Learn how to add observability to an application without the need to write code

Code-based
Learn the essential steps in setting up code-based instrumentation

Libraries
Learn how to add native instrumentation to your library.

 Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Yes
NoThank you. Your feedback is appreciated!
Please let us know how we can improve this page. Your feedback is appreciated!

Last modified February 21, 2026: chore(cleanup): applies `no-shortcut-ref-link --fix` mdl rule to all en pages (#9248) (58e68476)
