Pricing - Wikipedia
id="mw-content-text" class="mw-body-content"> Process of determining what a company will receive in exchange for its products
A price tag is a highly visual and objective guide to value.
Marketing
Key concepts
Account-based marketing
Activation
Annoyance factor
Attribution
Distribution
Brand licensing
Brand management
Cannibalization
Co-creation
Communications
Consumer behaviour
Consumer culture
Digital marketing
Dominance
Effectiveness
Ethics
Horizontal integration
Influencer marketing
Management
Mix
Pricing
Product marketing
Promotion
Retail
S-T-P
Segmentation
Targeting
Positioning
Service
Social marketing
Strategy
Vertical integration
Promotional content
Advertising
Ambush marketing
Branding
Corporate anniversary
Direct marketing
Franchising
Gender in advertising
Label
Loyalty marketing
Mobile marketing
On-hold messaging
Personal selling
Premiums
Prizes
Product placement
Propaganda
Publicity
Sales promotion
Sex in advertising
Underwriting spot
Promotional media
Behavioral targeting
Brand ambassador
Counter display unit
Display advertising
Display stand
Drip marketing
Endcap
Gondola
In-game advertising
Mobile advertising
Native advertising
New media
Online advertising
Out-of-home advertising
Point of sale
Product demonstration
Promotional merchandise
Merchandising
Promotional representative
Visual merchandising
Web banner
Word-of-mouth
Research
Market research
Marketing research
Mystery shopping
Consumer research
v
t
e
Pricing is the process whereby a business sets and displays the price at which it will sell its products and services and may be part of the business's marketing plan . In setting prices, the business will take into account the price at which it could acquire the goods, the manufacturing cost , the marketplace , competition, market condition, brand , and quality of the product.
Pricing is a fundamental aspect of product management and is one of the four Ps of the marketing mix , the other three aspects being product, promotion, and place . Price is the only revenue generating element among the four Ps, the rest being cost centers . However, the other Ps of marketing will contribute to decreasing price elasticity and so enable price increases to drive greater revenue and profits.
Pricing can be a manual or automatic process of applying prices to purchase and sales orders, based on factors such as a fixed amount, quantity break, promotion or sales campaign, specific vendor quote, price prevailing on entry, shipment or invoice date, a combination of multiple orders or lines, and many others. An automated pricing system requires more setup and maintenance but may prevent pricing errors. The needs of the consumer can be converted into demand only if the consumer has the willingness and capacity to buy the product. Thus, pricing is the most important concept in the field of marketing, it is used as a tactical decision in response to changing competitive, market and organizational situations.
Objectives of pricing
[ edit ]
This section does not cite any sources . Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Find sources:   "Pricing"   –   news   · newspapers   · books   · scholar   · JSTOR ( July 2025 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message )
The objectives of pricing should consider:
the financial goals of the company (i.e., profitability)
the fit with marketplace realities (whether customers are willing to buy at that price)
the extent to which the price supports a product's market positioning and is consistent with the other variables in the marketing mix
the consistency of prices across categories and products (consistency indicates reliability and supports customer confidence and satisfaction)
meeting or preventing competition
Price is influenced by the type of distribution channel used, the type of promotions employed, and the quality of the product. Where manufacturing is expensive, distribution is exclusive, and the product is supported by extensive advertising and promotional campaigns , prices are likely to be higher. In certain markets, price may act as a substitute for product quality, effective promotion, or strong selling efforts by distributors.
From the marketer's perspective, an efficient price is one that is very close to the maximum amount customers are prepared to pay. In economic terms, it is a price that shifts most of the consumer's economic surplus to the producer. An effective pricing strategy balances the price floor (the price below which the organization incurs losses) and the price ceiling (the price above which demand falls significantly).
Pricing strategies
[ edit ]
Main article: Pricing strategies
Pricing is not always seen as a strategic process. Greg Cudahy of Accenture observed in 2007 that for some businesses, "pricing is the last bastion of gut feel ". [ 1 ] Where pricing is strategic, marketers develop an overall pricing strategy which is consistent with the organization's mission and values. This pricing strategy typically becomes part of the company's overall long-term strategic plan . The strategy is designed to provide broad guidance for price-setters and ensures that the pricing strategy is consistent with other elements of the marketing plan. While the actual price of goods or services may vary in response to different conditions, the broad approach to pricing (i.e., the pricing strategy) remains a constant for the planning outlook period which is typically 3–5 years, but in some industries may be a longer period of 7–10 years. The pricing strategy established the overall, long-term goals of the pricing function, without specifying an actual price-point. [ 2 ]
Broadly, there are six approaches to pricing strategy mentioned in the marketing literature:
Operations-oriented pricing : where the objective is to optimize productive capacity, to achieve operational efficiencies or to match supply and demand through varying prices. In some cases, prices might be set to de-market. [ 3 ]
Revenue-oriented pricing: (also known as profit-oriented pricing or cost-based pricing ) - where the marketer seeks to maximize the profits (i.e., the surplus income over costs) or simply to cover costs and break even . [ 3 ] For example, dynamic pricing (also known as yield management ) is a form of revenue-oriented pricing.
Customer-oriented pricing : where the objective is to maximize the number of customers; encourage cross-selling opportunities or to recognize different levels in the customer's ability to pay. [ 3 ]
Value-based pricing , also known as image-based pricing , occurs when the company uses prices to signal market value or associates price with the desired value position in the mind of the buyer. Bertini and Koenigsberg report that customers can play an active role in informing a company about their perception of value and therefore have a role in setting prices. They also note that involving customers in pricing is counter-intuitive and potentially "unnerving". [ 4 ] The aim of value-based pricing is to reinforce the overall positioning strategy, e.g., premium pricing posture to pursue or maintain a luxury image. [ 5 ] [ 6 ]
Relationship-oriented pricing : where the marketer sets prices in order to build or maintain relationships with existing or potential customers. [ 7 ]
Socially-oriented pricing : Where the objective is to encourage or discourage specific social attitudes and behaviors, e.g. high tariffs on tobacco to discourage smoking. [ 8 ]
Optional pricing : Where the objective is to allow consumer to have an option on their purchase. e.g. buying a car optional to have CD player [ 9 ]
Pricing tactics
[ edit ]
When decision-makers have determined the broad approach to pricing (i.e., the pricing strategy), they turn their attention to pricing tactics. Tactical pricing decisions are shorter term prices, designed to accomplish specific short-term goals. The tactical approach to pricing may vary from time to time, depending on a range of internal considerations (e.g. such as the need to clear surplus inventory) or external factors (e.g. a response to competitive pricing tactics). Accordingly, a number of different pricing tactics may be employed in the course of a single planning period or across a single year. Typically line managers are given the latitude necessary to vary individual prices providing that they operate within the broad strategic approach. For example, some premium brands never offer discounts because the use of low prices may tarnish the brand image. Instead of discounting, premium brands are more likely to offer customer value through price-bundling or giveaways.
When setting individual prices, decision-makers require a solid understanding of pricing economics, notably break-even analysis , [ 10 ] as well as an appreciation of the psychological aspects of consumer decision-making including reservation prices , ceiling prices and floor prices . The marketing literature identifies literally hundreds of pricing tactics. [ 11 ] It is difficult to do justice to the variety of tactics in widespread use. Rao and Kartono carried out a cross-cultural study to identify the pricing strategies and tactics that are most widely used. [ 12 ] The following listing is largely based on their work.
ARC/RRC pricing
[ edit ]
A traditional tactic used in outsourcing that uses a fixed fee for a fixed volume of services, with variations on fees for volumes above or below target thresholds. Charges for additional resources ("ARCs") above the threshold are priced at rates to reflect the marginal cost of the additional production plus a reasonable profit. Credits ("RRCs") granted for reduction in resources consumed or provided offer the enterprise customer some comfort, but the savings on credits tend not to be equivalent to the increased costs when paying for incremental resources in excess of the threshold. [ 13 ]
Competitive pricing
[ edit ]
Competitive pricing is a pricing tactic used by companies to set prices for their products or services based on the prices charged by their competitors. This pricing strategy involves closely monitoring the prices charged by competitors, and adjusting prices accordingly to remain competitive in the market. Companies may use a variety of pricing tactics to achieve this. Competitive pricing is not always the best pricing strategy for every company or market. [ 14 ]
Complementary pricing
[ edit ]
The purchase of a printer leads to a lifetime of purchases of replacement parts. In such cases, complementary pricing may be considered.
Complementary pricing is an umbrella category of "captive-market" pricing tactics. It refers to a method in which one of two or more complementary products (a deskjet printer, for example) is priced to maximize sales volume, while the complementary product (printer ink cartridges) are priced at a much higher level in order to cover any shortfall sustained by the first product. [ 15 ]
Contingency pricing
[ edit ]
Contingency pricing is the process where a fee is only charged contingent on certain results. Contingency pricing is widely used in professional services such as legal services and consultancy services. [ 16 ] In the United Kingdom, a contingency fee is known as a conditional fee. [ 17 ]
Differential pricing
[ edit ]
Main article: Differential pricing
Differential pricing, also known as flexible pricing , multiple pricing or price discrimination , occurs where different prices are charged to different customers or market segments, and may be dependent on the service provider's assessment of the customer's willingness or ability to pay. [ 18 ] There are various forms of price difference including: the type of customer, the geographic area served, the quantity ordered, delivery time, payment terms, etc. With the advent of data analytics, differential pricing is becoming popular with most companies using customer specific data to give prices to specific customer.
Discount pricing
[ edit ]
A discount is any form of reduction in price.
Discount pricing is where the marketer or retailer offers a reduced price. Discounts in a variety of forms - e.g. quantity rebates, loyalty rebates, seasonal discounts, periodic or random discounts etc. [ 19 ] Enormous retailers can request value limits from providers and make a rebate evaluating system powerful as they purchase in mass. It is normally difficult to rival these retailers dependent on a rebate estimating technique. This type of pricing strategy is a predominant showcasing procedure to draw in shoppers by providing an additional worth or motivator, which urges customers to buy the advanced items right away. [ 20 ]
Discrete pricing
[ edit ]
Discrete pricing occurs when prices are set at a level that the price comes within the competence of an organization's decision making unit (DMU). [ 21 ] This method of pricing is often used in business-to-business contexts where the purchasing officer may be authorized to make purchases up to a predetermined level, beyond which decisions must go to a committee for authorization.
Discriminatory pricing
[ edit ]
Price discrimination is a pricing tactic where businesses charge different prices for the same product or service based on different customer groups. This tactic is used to maximize profits by charging customers the highest price they are willing to pay. Price discrimination can take various forms, such as charging different prices for the same product or service at different locations, offering discounts or promotions to certain groups of customers, or using dynamic pricing to adjust prices in real-time based on customer behavior or market conditions. [ 22 ]
Diversionary pricing
[ edit ]
Diversionary pricing is a variation of loss leading used extensively in services; a low price is charged on a basic service with the intention of recouping on the extras; can also refer to low prices on some parts of the service to develop an image of low price.
Everyday low prices
[ edit ]
"Everyday Low Prices" are widely used in supermarkets.
Everyday low prices refers to the practice of maintaining a regular low price - in which consumers are not forced to wait for discounting or specials. This method is used by supermarkets. [ 23 ]
Exit fees
[ edit ]
Exit fees are fees charged to customers who depart from the service process prior to natural completion or the end of a contract. [ 24 ] The objective of an exit fee is to deter premature exit. [ 25 ] Exit fees are often found in financial services, telecommunications services and aged care facilities. Regulatory authorities, around the globe, have often expressed their discontent with the practice of exit fees as it has the potential to be anti-competitive and restricts consumers' abilities to switch freely, but the practice has not been proscribed. [ 26 ]
Experience curve pricing
[ edit ]
Experience curve pricing occurs when a manufacturer prices a product or service at a low rate in order to obtain high volume, with the expectation that the cost of production will decrease with the acquisition of manufacturing experience. This approach, which is often used in the pricing of high technology products and services, is based on the insight that manufacturers learn to trim production costs over time in a phenomenon known as experience effects . [ 19 ]
Geographic pricing
[ edit ]
See also: Big Mac Index
Geographic pricing occurs when different prices are charged in different geographic markets for an identical product. [ 19 ] For example, publishers often make textbooks available at lower prices in Asian countries because average wages tend to be lower with implications for the customer's ability to pay. In other cases, geographic variations in prices may reflect the different costs of distribution and servicing certain markets. [ 27 ]
Guaranteed pricing
[ edit ]
Guaranteed pricing is a variant of contingency pricing. It refers to the practice of including an undertaking or promise that certain results or outcomes will be achieved. For instance, some business consultants undertake to improve productivity or profitability by 10%. In the event that the result is not achieved, the client does not pay for the service. [ 16 ]
High-low pricing
[ edit ]
High-low pricing refers to the practice of offering goods at a high price for a period of time, followed by offering the same goods at a low price for a predetermined time. This practice is widely used by chain stores selling homewares. The main disadvantage of the high-low tactic is that consumers tend to become aware of the price cycles and time their purchases to coincide with a low-price cycle. [ 28 ] [ 29 ]
Honeymoon pricing
[ edit ]
Honeymoon pricing refers to the practice of using a low introductory price with subsequent price increases once relationship is established. The objective of honeymoon pricing is to "lock" customers into a long-term association with the vendor. This approach is widely used in situations where customer switching costs are relatively high such as in home loans and financial investments. [ 30 ] It is also common in categories where a subscription model is used, especially if this is coupled with automatic regular payments, such as in newspaper and magazine subscriptions, cable TV, broadband and cell phone subscriptions, and in utilities and insurance.
Loss leader
[ edit ]
A loss leader is a product that has a price set below the operating margin . Loss leading is widely used in supermarkets and budget-priced retail outlets where the product is used a means of generating store traffic. The low price is widely promoted and the store is prepared to take a small loss on an individual item, with an expectation that it will recoup that loss when customers purchase other higher-priced/higher-margin items. In service industries, loss leading may refer to the practice of charging a reduced price on the first order as an inducement, with anticipation of charging higher prices on subsequent orders. Loss leading is often found in retail, where the loss leader is used to drive store traffic and generate sales of complementary items. [ 31 ]
New product pricing
[ edit ]
See also: Pricing §   Penetration pricing
New product pricing is a difficult exercise which involves achieving a balance between setting a price which will attract customer interest and achieving an acceptable level of return on the costs and time involved in developing the product. [ 32 ] Three aspects of new product pricing identified by consultant Ralph Zuponcic are product development and manufacture cost, perceived customer value and the market conditions determining how the new product is to be positioned in relation to its competition. [ 33 ]
Offset pricing
[ edit ]
Offset pricing (also known as diversionary pricing ) is the service industry's equivalent of loss leading. A service may price one component of the offer at a very low price with an expectation that it can recoup any losses by cross-selling additional services. For example, a carpet steam cleaning service may charge a very low basic price for the first three rooms, but charges higher prices for additional rooms, furniture and curtain cleaning. The operator may also try to cross-sell the client on additional services such as spot-cleaning products, or stain-resistant treatments for fabrics and carpets. [ 16 ]
Parity pricing
[ edit ]
Parity pricing refers to the process of pricing a product at or near a rival's price in order to remain competitive. [ 34 ] Markets can be sectioned, empowering the firm to segregate between the fare and homegrown market it is indicated that the defectively serious firm can differentially cost. Besides, as the quantity of homegrown firms is expanded, and if these organizations can portion the market, the differential among homegrown and unfamiliar costs is diminished. The import equality cost might be charged in the homegrown market. [ 35 ]
Peak and off-peak pricing
[ edit ]
Peak and off-peak pricing is a form of price discrimination where the price variation is due to some type of seasonal factor. The objective of peak and off-peak pricing is to use prices to even out peaks and troughs in demand. Peak and off-peak pricing is widely used in tourism, travel, and also in utilities such as electricity providers. Peak pricing has caught the public's imagination since the ride-sharing service provider, Uber, commenced using surge pricing and has sought to patent the technologies that support this approach. [ 36 ]
Penetration pricing
[ edit ]
Penetration pricing is an approach that can be considered at the time of market entry. In this approach, the price of a product is initially set low in an effort to penetrate the market quickly. Low prices and low margins also act as a deterrent, preventing potential rivals from entering the market since they would have to undercut the low margins to gain a foothold. [ 37 ]
Premium pricing
[ edit ]
Premium brands rarely discount due to the potential to tarnish the brand. Instead they offer gift packs to provide customers with value.
Premium pricing (also called prestige pricing [ 38 ] ) is the strategy of consistently pricing at, or near, the high end of the possible price range to help attract status-conscious consumers. The high pricing of a premium product is used to enhance and reinforce a product's luxury image. Examples of companies that partake in premium pricing in the marketplace include Rolex and Bentley . As well as brand, product attributes such as eco-labelling and provenance (e.g. 'certified organic' and 'product of Australia') may add value for consumers [ 39 ] and attract premium pricing. A component of such premiums may reflect the increased cost of production. People will buy a premium-priced product because:
They believe the high price is an indication of good quality
They believe it to be a sign of self-worth - "They are worth it;" it authenticates the buyer's success and status; it is a signal to others that the owner is a member of an exclusive group
They require flawless performance in this application - the cost of product malfunction is too high to buy anything but the best - for example, a heart pacemaker.
The old association of luxury only being for the kings and queens of the world is almost non-existent in today's world. People have generally become wealthier, therefore the mass marketing phenomenon of luxury has simply become a part of everyday life, and no longer reserved for the elite. [ 40 ] Since consumers have a larger source of disposable income, they now have the power to purchase products that meet their aspirational needs. This phenomenon enables premium pricing opportunities for marketers in luxury markets. [ 41 ] Luxurification in society can be seen when middle class members of society, are willing to pay premium prices for a service or product of the highest quality when compared with similar goods. Examples of this can be seen with items such as clothing and electronics. Charging a premium price for a product also makes it more inaccessible and helps it gain an exclusive appeal. Luxury brands such as Louis Vuitton and Gucci are more than just clothing and become more of a status symbol (Yeoman, 2011).
Prestige goods are usually sold by companies that have a monopoly on the market and hold competitive advantage. Due to a firm having great market power they are able to charge at a premium for goods, and are able to spend a larger sum on promotion and advertising. [ 42 ] According to Han, Nunes and Dreze (2015) figure on "signal preference and taxonomy based on wealth and need for status" two social groups known as "Parvenus" and "Poseurs" are individuals generally more self-conscious, and base purchases on a need to reach a higher status or gain a social prestige value. [ 43 ] Further market research shows the role of possessions in consumer's lives and how people make assumptions about others solely based on their possessions. People associate high-priced items with success (Han et al., 2010). Marketers understand this concept, and price items at a premium to create the illusion of exclusivity and high quality. Consumers are likely to purchase a product at a higher price than a similar product as they crave the status, and feeling of superiority as being part of a minority that can in fact afford the said product (Han et al., 2010).
A price premium can also be charged to consumers when purchasing eco-labelled products. Market based incentives are given in order to encourage people to practice their business in an eco-friendly way in regard to the environment. [ 44 ] Associations such as the MSC's fishery certification program and seafood ecolabel reward those who practice sustainable fishing. Pressure from environmental groups have caused the implementation of associations such as these, rather than consumers demanding it. The value consumers gain from purchasing environmentally conscious products may create a premium price over non eco-labelled products. This means that producers have some sort of incentive for supplying goods worthy of eco-labelling standard. Usually more costs are incurred when practicing sustainable business, and charging at a premium is a way businesses can recover extra costs. [ 45 ]
Prestige pricing
[ edit ]
Prestige pricing, also known as premium pricing and occasionally luxury pricing or high-price maintenance , refers to the deliberate pursuit of a high price posture to create an image of quality. [ 46 ]
Price bundling
[ edit ]
Xbox price bundle price
Price bundling, also known as product bundling , occurs where two or more products or services are priced as a package with a single price. There are several types of bundles: pure bundles where the goods can only be purchased as package, or mixed bundles where the goods can be purchased individually or as a package. The price of the bundle is typically less than when the two items are purchased separately. [ 47 ] Taleizadeh et al . suggest that it is important for businesses to consider carefully which products or services to include in a bundle, as well as the price point of the bundle, to ensure that it is still profitable for the company. [ 48 ]
Price discrimination
[ edit ]
Price discrimination is also known as variable pricing or differential pricing .
Price lining
[ edit ]
Price lining is the use of a limited number of prices for all product offered by a business. Price lining is a tradition started in the old five and dime stores in which everything cost either 5 or 10 cents. In price lining, the price remains constant but quality or extent of product or service is adjusted to reflect changes in cost. The underlying rationale of this tactic is that these amounts are seen as suitable price points for a whole range of products by prospective customers. It has the advantage of ease of administering, but the disadvantage of inflexibility, particularly in times of inflation or unstable prices. Price lining continues to be widely used in department stores where customers often note racks of garments or accessories priced at predetermined price points, e.g. separate racks of men's ties, where each rack is priced at $10, $20, and $40.
Price signaling
[ edit ]
Price signaling is where the price is used as an indicator of some other attribute. For example, some travel resorts promote that when two adults make a booking, the kids stay for free. This type of pricing is designed to signal that the resort is a family-friendly operation. [ 49 ]
Price skimming
[ edit ]
Price skimming , also known as skim-the-cream pricing, is a tactic that might be considered at market entry. The objective is to charge relatively high prices in order to recoup the cost of product development early in the life-cycle and before competitors enter the market. [ 37 ]
Promotional pricing
[ edit ]
Promotional pricing is a temporary measure that involves setting prices at levels lower than normally charged for a good or service. Promotional pricing is sometimes a reaction to unforeseen circumstances, as when a downturn in demand leaves a company with excess stocks; or when competitive activity is making inroads into market share or profits. [ 50 ]
Psychological pricing
[ edit ]
Main article: Psychological pricing
Extensive use of the terminal digit 'nine' suggests that psychological pricing is at play.
Psychological pricing is a range of tactics designed to have a positive psychological impact. Price tags using the terminal digit "9" (e.g., $9.99, $19.99, or $199.99) can be used to signal price points and bring an item in at just under the consumer's reservation price . Psychological pricing is widely used in a variety of retail settings. [ 51 ]
Two-part pricing
[ edit ]
Setting a two-part tariff , or two-part pricing, is a variant of captive-market pricing used in service industries. Two-part pricing breaks the actual price into two parts; a fixed service fee plus a variable consumption rate. Two-part pricing tactics are widely used by utility companies such as electricity, gas and water and services where there is a quasi- membership type relationship, credit cards where an annual fee is charged and theme parks where an entrance fee is charged for admission while the customer pays for rides and extras. One part of the price represents a membership fee or joining fee, while the second part represents the usage component. [ 52 ]
Methods of setting prices
[ edit ]
Pricing factors include manufacturing cost , market place, competition, market condition, and the quality of product.
Demand-based pricing
[ edit ]
Demand-based pricing , also known as dynamic pricing or yield management , is a pricing method that uses consumer demand – based on perceived value – as the central element. It is fundamentally a type of rationing : as shortages cause the price to rise, either demand weakens (as the price becomes too high to attract as many buyers) or the supply increases (as high profits encourage new suppliers to enter the market). [ 53 ]
Price modeling using econometric techniques can help measure price elasticity , and computer based modeling tools will often facilitate simulations of different prices and the outcome on sales and profit. More sophisticated tools help determine price at the SKU level across a portfolio of products. Retailers will optimize the price of their private label SKUs with those of national brands.
Uber's pricing policy is an example of short-term demand-based dynamic pricing . It uses an automated algorithm to increase prices to "surge price" levels, responding rapidly to changes of supply and demand in the market. By responding in real-time, an equilibrium between demand and supply of drivers can be approached. [ 54 ] [ 55 ] Customers receive notice when making an Uber reservation that prices have increased. [ 54 ] The company applied for a U.S. patent on surge pricing in 2013, though airlines are known to have been using similar techniques in seat pricing for years. [ 56 ] [ 57 ]
The practice has often caused passengers to become upset and invited criticism when it happens as a result of holidays, inclement weather, natural disasters, or other factors. [ 58 ] During New Year's Eve 2011, Uber prices were as high as seven times normal rates, causing outrage. [ 59 ] During the 2014 Sydney hostage crisis , Uber implemented surge pricing, resulting in fares of up to four times normal charges; while it defended the surge pricing at first, it later apologized and refunded the surcharges. [ 60 ] Uber CEO Travis Kalanick has responded to criticism by saying: "... because this is so new, it's going to take some time for folks to accept it. There's 70 years of conditioning around the fixed price of taxis." [ 59 ] [ 61 ]
Demand-based pricing is perceived by buyers as unfair, and during emergencies or other difficulties, as a type of price gouging . [ 53 ] For example, rather than seeing the increased cost of an Uber ride on a holiday as a way of encouraging more drivers to work that day instead of celebrating the holiday themselves, through the mechanism of paying the drivers more to work during peak hours, or as a way of encouraging would-be buyers to reduce demand by using alternatives like carpooling or mass transit , the buyers see it as the company exploiting their increased need for services on holidays. [ 53 ]
Multidimensional pricing
[ edit ]
Multidimensional pricing is the pricing of a product or service using multiple numbers. In this practice, price no longer consists of a single monetary amount (e.g., sticker price of a car), but rather consists of various dimensions (e.g., monthly payments, number of payments, and a down payment). Research has shown that this practice can significantly influence consumers' ability to understand and process price information. [ 62 ]
Personalized pricing
[ edit ]
A used-car salesman may consider factors that signal the buyer's socioeconomic status, such as how the buyer is dressed and whether they sound educated, to decide what price to offer during price negotiations. [ 53 ]
Personalized pricing uses information about the would-be buyers to offer different prices to different buyers, based on what the seller knows about the buyer. [ 53 ] In principle, this would offer lower prices to customers who are price-sensitive or who are unlikely to buy the product or service, and higher prices to customers who are more able or willing to pay higher prices. [ 53 ] This may be calculated from aggregated customer data (e.g., indicating that buyers from a high-income city will pay higher prices) or, during an individual negotiation , based on the seller's beliefs about how much the buyer is willing to pay.
Student financial aid in the United States is an example of personalized pricing, as universities offer different amounts and types of discounts and loan options to different students based on what the school knows about the student's family and income. [ 53 ]
Micromarketing
[ edit ]
Micromarketing is the practice of tailoring products, brands ( microbrands ), and promotions to meet the needs and wants of microsegments within a market. It is a type of market customization that deals with pricing of customer/product combinations at the store or individual level.
Theoretical considerations in pricing
[ edit ]
Main article: Price
News report by Voice of America about ticket prices at the 2016 World Series , the first world series game at Wrigley Field in 71 years [ 63 ]
Price/quality relationship
[ edit ]
The price/quality relationship comprises consumers' perceptions of value. High prices are often taken as a sign of quality, especially when the product or service lacks search qualities that can be inspected prior to purchase. [ 64 ] Understanding consumers’ perceptions of the price/quality relationship is most important in the case of complex products that are hard to test, and experiential products that cannot be tested until used (such as most services). The greater the uncertainty surrounding a product, the more consumers depend on the price/quality signal and the greater premium they may be prepared to pay.
Consumers can have different perceptions on premium pricing, and this factor makes it important for the marketer to understand consumer behavior . According to Vigneron and Johnson's figure on "Prestige-Seeking Consumer Behaviours," consumers can be categorized into five groups: hedonist, perfectionist, snob, bandwagon, and Veblenian. These categories rank from level of self-consciousness to importance of price as an indicator of prestige.
The last of these five categories, the Veblenian Effect, involves a group of consumers who make purchase decisions based on conspicuous value, as they tend to purchase publicly consumed luxury products. This shows they are likely to make the purchase to show power, status, and wealth. Consumers who exhibit the Snob Effect can be described as individuals who search for perceived unique value, and will purchase exclusive products in order to be the first or very few who has it. They will also avoid purchasing products consumed by a general mass of people, as it is perceived that items in limited supply hold a higher value than items that do not. The Bandwagon Effect explains that consumers who fit into this category make purchasing decisions to fit into a social group, and gain a perceived social value out of purchasing popular products within said social group at premium prices. Research shows that people will often conform to what the majority of the group they are a member of thinks when it comes to the attitude of a product. Paying a premium price for a product can act as a way of gaining acceptance, due to the pressure placed on them by their peers. The Hedonic Effect can be described as a group of people whose purchasing decisions are not affected by the status and exclusivity gained by purchasing a product at a premium, nor are they susceptible to the fear of being left out and peer pressure. Consumers who fit into this category base their purchasing decisions on a perceived emotional value, and gain intangible benefits such as sensory pleasure, aesthetic beauty, and excitement. Consumers of this type have a higher interest in their own well-being.
The final category on Vigneron and Johnson's figure of "Prestige-Seeking Consumer Behaviours" is the Perfectionism Effect. Prestige brands are expected to show high quality, and it is this reassurance of the highest quality that can actually enhance the value of the product. According to this effect, those that fit into this group value the prestige brands to have a superior quality and higher performance than other similar brands. Research has indicated that consumers perceive the quality of a product to be related to its price. Consumers often believe a high price of a product indicates a higher level of quality. [ 65 ]
Even though it is suggested that high prices seem to make certain products more desirable, consumers who fall in this category have their own perceptions of quality and make decisions based upon their own judgement. [ 65 ] [ 66 ] They may also use the premium price as an indicator of the product's level of quality.
Price sensitivity and consumer psychology
[ edit ]
Main article: Price elasticity of demand
In their book, The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing , Thomas Nagle and Reed Holden outline nine laws or factors that influence how a consumer perceives a given price and how price-sensitive s/he is likely to be with respect to different purchase decisions: [ 67 ] [ 68 ]
Reference price effect : Buyer's price sensitivity for a given product increases the higher the product's price relative to perceived alternatives. Perceived alternatives can vary by buyer segment, by occasion, and other factors.
Difficult comparison effect: Buyers are less sensitive to the price of a known/more reputable product when they have difficulty comparing it to potential alternatives.
Switching costs effect : The higher the product-specific investment a buyer must make to switch suppliers, the less price-sensitive that buyer is when choosing between alternatives.
High switching costs : Organizations whose products have scarcely any substitutes and require huge exertion to access their utilization experience huge exchanging costs. Some firms have additionally fused membership deals, which add greater consistency to their plan of action and further secure their clients. Similarly, as with numerous innovation organizations, vulnerability remains in regards to its new item improvement cycle and reception of new items.
Low switching costs : Organizations that offer items or administrations that are exceptionally simple to imitate at equivalent costs by competitors regularly have low exchanging costs. For example, clothing company may have low exchanging costs among customers, who can discover garment bargains effectively and can rapidly think about costs by strolling from one store then onto the next. The ascent of Internet retailers and quick transportation has made it significantly simpler for customers to search for attire at their homes over numerous online stages.
Price-quality effect : Buyers are less sensitive to price the more that higher prices signal higher quality. Products for which this effect is particularly relevant include: image products, exclusive products, and products with minimal cues for quality.
Expenditure effect : Buyers are more price-sensitive when the product's expense accounts for a large percentage of buyers’ available income or budget.
End-benefit effect : The effect refers to the relationship a given purchase has to a larger overall benefit, and is divided into two parts:
Derived demand : The more sensitive buyers are to the price of the end benefit, the more sensitive they will be to the prices of those products that contribute to that benefit.
Price proportion cost : The price proportion cost refers to the percent of the total cost of the end benefit accounted for by a given component that helps to produce the end benefit (e.g., think CPU and PCs). The smaller a given component's share of the total cost of the end benefit, the less sensitive buyers will be to the component's price.
Shared-cost effect : The smaller the portion of the purchase price buyers must pay for themselves, the less price-sensitive they will be.
Fairness effect : Buyers are more sensitive to the price of a product when the price is outside the range they perceive as "fair" or "reasonable" given the purchase context.
Framing effect : Buyers are more price-sensitive when they perceive the price as a loss rather than a forgone gain, and they have greater price sensitivity when the price is paid separately rather than as part of a bundle.
Approaches
[ edit ]
Pricing is the most effective profit lever . [ 69 ] Pricing can be approached at three levels: the industry, market, and transaction level.
Pricing at the industry level focuses on the overall economics of the industry, including supplier price changes and customer demand changes.
Pricing at the market level focuses on the competitive position of the price in comparison to the value differential of the product to that of comparative competing products.
Pricing at the transaction level focuses on managing the implementation of discounts away from the reference, or list price, which occur both on and off the invoice or receipt.
A "price waterfall" analysis is so-called because graphical demonstrations indicate successive differences between a product's list price, prices offered to purchasers net of discounts, the price stated on an invoice, and the actual price paid by the customer (the "pocket price"). This type of analysis has been recommended to businesses. [ 70 ] The technique helps sales personnel and financial staff to understand the differences which arise between the reference or list price, which might reflect certain expectations about income and profit, and the price which is ultimately charged and the income this represents after all contract, sales, and payment discounts, although a document written for the Sales Management Association notes that it is "only a starting point" in this regard. [ 71 ] Harvard Business Review writers Marn and Rosiello noted in a 1992 article that the gap between invoice price and "pocket price" is often more significant than the gap between list price and invoice price: items like annual volume discounts, which are not necessarily visible to sales personnel, have a proportionately greater impact on overall income and thus management oversight of these pricing elements is important. [ 72 ]
Pricing display
[ edit ]
This car prominently displays the cost of monthly payments, rather than the total sticker price.
Pricing display refers to the manner in which current and previous prices are made known to customers, for example through labels on products or shelving or in promotional material. UK government guidance on food pricing display was adopted in 2012 by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and later endorsed by the Competition and Markets Authority (who replaced the OFT). The guidance includes examples of good practice to be followed where a retailer wishes to draw attention both to a current price and the fact that the product was previously sold at a higher price. [ 73 ]
Pricing mistakes
[ edit ]
Many companies make common pricing mistakes. Failure to pay adequate attention to pricing has been seen as a mistake in itself. [ 74 ]
Jerry Bernstein's article Use Suppliers' Pricing Mistakes outlines several other sales errors, which include:
Weak controls on discounting ( price override )
Inadequate systems for tracking competitors' selling prices and market share ( competitive intelligence )
Reliance on cost-plus pricing or "cost-up pricing", which proves to be unreliable once customers challenge over-priced offers.
Price increases poorly executed
Worldwide price inconsistencies
Paying sales representatives on sales volume vs. addition of revenue measures. [ 74 ]
Contrary to common misconception , price is not the most important factor for consumers, when deciding to buy a product. [ 75 ]
See also
[ edit ]
Business and Economics portal
Allocation of purchase price difference
Bait pricing
Base point pricing
Congestion pricing
Contribution margin
Cost the limit of price
Demand-based pricing
Distribution
Drip pricing
Dumping (pricing policy)
Factor price
Formula pricing
Free price system
Group buy
High-low pricing
Marketing
Marketing mix
Market segmentation
Opportunity cost
Pay what you want
Price ceiling
Price controls
Price fixing
Price fixing cases
Price gouging
Price mechanism
Price premium
Price signal
Price system
Price umbrella
Pricing science
Pricing strategies
Promotion
Purchasing power
Real prices and ideal prices
Relative price
Retail
Resale price maintenance
Shadow price
Sliding scale fees
Suggested retail price
Target pricing
Ticket resale
Time-based pricing
Value pricing
Unit price
References
[ edit ]
↑ Knowledge at Wharton staff writers (October 3, 2007). "The Price Is Right, but Maybe It's Not, and How Do You Know?" . Wharton Business School . Retrieved 23 May 2024 .
↑ Smith, Tim J. (2012). Pricing strategy: setting price levels, managing price discounts, & establishing price structures . Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning. pp.   270– 272. ISBN   978-0-538-48088-8 .
1 2 3 Dibb, S., Simkin, L., Pride, W.C. and Ferrell, O.C., Marketing: Concepts and Strategies , Cengage, 2013, Chapter 12
↑ Bertini, M and Koenigsberg, O, When Customers Help Set Prices , Sloan Management Review , Summer 2014, published on 17 June 2014, accessed on 11 July 2025
↑ Nagle, T., Hogan, J. and Zale, J., The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing: A Guide to Growing More Profitably , Oxon, Routledge, 2016, p. 1 and 6
↑ Brennan, R., Canning,L. and McDowell, R., Business-to-Business Marketing, 2nd ed., London, Sage, 2011, p.331
↑ Neumeier, Marty (2016). The brand flip: why customers now run companies...and how to profit from it . Always learning: Pearson. San Francisco, CA: New Riders. p.   55. ISBN   978-0-13-417281-1 .
↑ Irvin, George (1978). Modern Cost-Benefit Methods . London: Macmillan Education UK. pp.   137– 160. doi : 10.1007/978-1-349-15912-3_8 . ISBN   978-0-333-23208-8 .
↑ Kotler Principle of Marketing, Pearson
↑ Nagle, Thomas T.; Hogan, John; Zale, Joseph (2016-08-23). The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing . Routledge. pp.   207– 243. doi : 10.4324/9781315266220 . ISBN   978-1-351-96951-2 .
↑ Tellis, Gerard J. (October 1986). "Beyond the Many Faces of Price: An Integration of Pricing Strategies" . Journal of Marketing . 50 (4): 146– 160. doi : 10.1177/002224298605000402 . ISSN   0022-2429 . JSTOR   1251292 .
↑ Rao, V.R. and Kartono, B., " Pricing Strategies and Objectives: A Cross-cultural Survey ", in Handbook of Pricing Research in Marketing , Rao, V.R. (ed), Northampton, MA, Edward Elgar, 2009, pp 9-36
↑ "Pricing Structure Review" (PDF) . Virginia Information Technologies Agency . March 2015. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-01-08 . Retrieved 2017-02-22 .
↑ Estelami, Hooman; Nejad, Mohammad G. (2017-11-20). "The impact of cognitive style, entrepreneurial attitudes and gender on competitive price responses" . Journal of Product & Brand Management . 26 (7): 759– 770. doi : 10.1108/JPBM-05-2016-1189 . ISSN   1061-0421 .
↑ Business Dictionary, "What is complementary products pricing? Definition and meaning" . Archived from the original on 2017-02-02 . Retrieved 2017-01-22 .
1 2 3 Schlissel, Martin R.; Chasin, Joseph (July 1991). "Pricing of Services: An Interdisciplinary Review" . The Service Industries Journal . 11 (3): 271– 286. doi : 10.1080/02642069100000046 . ISSN   0264-2069 .
↑ Black's Law Dictionary, 8th ed., 2004, p. 338.
↑ Phlips, Louis (1983). The economics of price discrimination . Cambridge University Press. p.   5. ISBN   978-0-521-23994-3 .
1 2 3 Rao, V.R. and Kartono, B., "Pricing Strategies and Objectives: A Cross-cultural Survey", in Handbook of Pricing Research in Marketing , Rao, V.R. (ed), Northampton, MA, Edward Elgar, 2009, p.15
↑ Xu, Yin; Huang, Jin-Song (2014-09-24). "Effects of Price Discounts and Bonus Packs on Online Impulse Buying" . Social Behavior and Personality . 42 (8): 1293– 1302. doi : 10.2224/sbp.2014.42.8.1293 . ISSN   0301-2212 .
↑ Bernhardt, Dan; Hughson, Eric (October 1996). "Discrete Pricing and the Design of Dealership Markets" . Journal of Economic Theory . 71 (1): 148– 182. doi : 10.1006/jeth.1996.0113 .
↑ Fabra, Natalia; Reguant, Mar (October 2020). "A model of search with price discrimination". European Economic Review . 129 103571. doi : 10.1016/j.euroecorev.2020.103571 .
↑ Hoch, Stephen J.; Drèze, Xavier; Purk, Mary E. (October 1994). "EDLP, Hi-Lo, and Margin Arithmetic" . Journal of Marketing . 58 (4): 16– 27. doi : 10.1177/002224299405800402 . ISSN   0022-2429 . JSTOR   1251913 .
↑ Ingrams, S., How to avoid paying an exit fee when you switch energy tariffs , Which? , published 13 November 2017, accessed 15 April 2021
↑ Investopedia, [Definition], "Exit Fee" . 2007-06-11. Archived from the original on 2017-02-02 . Retrieved 2017-01-22 .
↑ D'Aloisio, T., [Chairman of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission], "Rules on exit fees are clear", Speech given in November, 2010 and also published in the Herald-Sun , 19 November 2010,
↑ Phlips, L., The Economics of Price Discrimination , Cambridge University Press, 1983, pp 5-7
↑ Cite error: The named reference eldp was invoked but never defined (see the help page ).
↑ Kaufmann, Patrick J.; Smith, N.Craig; Ortmeyer, Gwendolyn K. (Summer 1994). "Deception in retailer high-low pricing: A "rule of reason" approach" . Journal of Retailing . 70 (2): 115– 138. doi : 10.1016/0022-4359(94)90011-6 .
↑ Martin, P., "Be alert and informed and you may pay less", The Age [newspaper], 16 January 2013,
↑ Smith, T., Pricing Strategy: Setting Price Levels, Managing Price Discounts and Establishing Price Structures , Cengage Learning, 2011, p. 74
↑ Zuponcic, R. (2012), Guidelines to New Product Pricing Strategies , PricePoint Partners
↑ Zuponcic, R., 3 Keys to New Product Pricing , accessed on 18 May 2025
↑ Rao, V.R., Handbook of Pricing Research in Marketing , Edward Elgar Publishing, 2009, pp 30-31
↑ Holden, Merle (September 2005). "The Economics of Import Parity Pricing: A Pedagogical Note" . The South African Journal of Economics . 73 (3): 357– 362. doi : 10.1111/j.1813-6982.2005.00023.x . ISSN   0038-2280 .
↑ " Uber Is Trying to Patent Its Surge Pricing Technology ", Time , 19 December 2014
1 2 Dean, J., "Pricing Policies for New Products" , Harvard Business Review , Vol 54, No. 6, pp 141–153, accessed on 14 May 2025
↑ "Prestige Pricing: Pros & Cons and Examples" . Inevitable Steps. March 15, 2016. Archived from the original on March 23, 2016 . Retrieved March 17, 2016 .
↑ Paull, John, 2009, The Value of Eco-Labelling Archived 2011-09-30 at the Wayback Machine , VDM Verlag, ISBN   3-639-15495-9
↑ Yeoman, I (2011). "The changing behaviours of luxury consumption" . Journal of Revenue and Pricing Management . 10 (1): 47– 50. doi : 10.1057/rpm.2010.43 .
↑ Yeoman, I; McMahon-Beattie, Una (2005). "Luxury markets and premium pricing". Journal of Revenue and Pricing Management . 15 (4): 319– 328. doi : 10.1057/palgrave.rpm.5170155 . S2CID   154517743 .
↑ Kumcu, E.; McClure (2003). "Explaining Prestige Pricing: An Alternative to Back-Bending Demand". Marketing Education Review . 9 (1): 49– 57. doi : 10.1080/10528008.2003.11488811 . S2CID   155112356 .
↑ Han, Y.; Nunes, J.; Drèze, X. (2010). "Signaling Status with Luxury Goods: The Role of Brand Prominence". Journal of Marketing . 74 (4): 15– 30. doi : 10.1509/jmkg.74.4.15 . S2CID   18643909 .
↑ Roheim, C.; Asche, F.; Santos, J. (2011). "The Elusive Price Premium for Ecolabelled Products: Evidence from Seafood in the UK Market". Journal of Agricultural Economics . 62 (3): 655– 668. doi : 10.1111/j.1477-9552.2011.00299.x .
↑ Kumcu, Erdogan; McClure, James E. (2003-03-01). "Explaining Prestige Pricing: An Alternative to Back-Bending Demand". Marketing Education Review . 13 (1): 49– 57. doi : 10.1080/10528008.2003.11488811 . ISSN   1052-8008 . S2CID   155112356 .
↑ Pride, W. and Ferrell, O.C., Marketing , Mason, OH, Cengage Learning, 2010, p. 596
↑ Guiltinan, Joseph P. (April 1987). "The Price Bundling of Services: A Normative Framework" . Journal of Marketing . 51 (2): 74– 85. doi : 10.1177/002224298705100206 . ISSN   0022-2429 . JSTOR   1251130 .
↑ Taleizadeh, Ata Allah; Babaei, Masoumeh Sadat; Niaki, Seyed Taghi Akhavan; Noori-daryan, Mahsa (June 2020). "Bundle pricing and inventory decisions on complementary products" . Operational Research . 20 (2): 517– 541. doi : 10.1007/s12351-017-0335-4 . ISSN   1109-2858 .
↑ Rao, V.R. and Kartono, B., "Pricing Strategies and Objectives: A Cross-cultural Survey", in Handbook of Pricing Research in Marketing , Rao, V.R. (ed), Northampton, MA, Edward Elgar, 2009, pp 31-32
↑ Livesay, F., Promotional Pricing , Macmillan, 1976, pp 77-82
↑ Poundstone, W., Priceless: The Myth of Fair Value (and How to Take Advantage of It), NY, Hill and Wang, 2011, pp 184-200
↑ Hayes, Beth (January 1987). "Competition and Two-Part Tariffs" . The Journal of Business . 60 (1): 41– 54. doi : 10.1086/296384 . ISSN   0021-9398 . JSTOR   2352946 .
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Beam, Christopher (2024-04-16). "Welcome to Pricing Hell" . The Atlantic . Retrieved 2024-04-19 .
1 2 Clay, Kelly (October 27, 2011). "Is Uber Really a Good Alternative to Taxis?" . LockerGnome . Archived from the original on January 2, 2012.
↑ Harris, David (April 24, 2014). "That time Uber almost charged me $1,099 for a Boston-to-Cambridge trip" . Boston Business Journal . Archived from the original on April 25, 2014.
↑ "Uber Seeks to Patent Pricing Surges That Critics Call Gouging" . Bloomberg L.P. December 19, 2014. Archived from the original on November 29, 2016.
↑ "Uber Is Trying to Patent Its Surge Pricing Technology" . Time . December 19, 2014. Archived from the original on December 21, 2014.
↑ Dan Kedmey (December 15, 2014). "This Is How Uber's 'Surge Pricing' Works" . Time Magazine . Archived from the original on December 16, 2014.
1 2 Bilton, Nreick (January 8, 2012). "Disruptions: Taxi Supply and Demand, Priced by the Mile" . The New York Times . Archived from the original on January 16, 2012.
↑ Issie Lapowsky (December 15, 2014). "What Uber's Sydney Surge Pricing Debacle Says About Its Public Image" . Wired Magazine . Archived from the original on June 1, 2015.
↑ In Praise of Efficient Price Gouging (August 19, 2014), MIT Technology Review
↑ Estelami, H: "Consumer Perceptions of Multi-Dimensional Prices", Advances in Consumer Research, 1997.
↑ "Chicago Cubs Host First World Series Games in 71 Years" . Voice of America . 29 October 2016. Archived from the original on 10 March 2018 . Retrieved 4 May 2018 .
↑ Zeithaml, Valarie A. (July 1988). "Consumer Perceptions of Price, Quality, and Value: A Means-End Model and Synthesis of Evidence" . Journal of Marketing . 52 (3): 2– 22. doi : 10.2307/1251446 . JSTOR   1251446 .
1 2 Vigneron, F., & Johnson, L. W., "A Review and a Conceptual Framework of Prestige-Seeking Consumer Behavior" , Academy of Marketing Science Review , No. 1, 1999, pp 1-17
↑ Carrasco Villanueva, Marco Alberto (2018-02-21). "El Efecto "Pricebo": Cómo los precios pueden influenciar la percepción sobre la calidad del cannabis y sus implicaciones en las políticas de precios" . Pensamiento Crítico . 22 (2): 175. doi : 10.15381/pc.v22i2.14336 . ISSN   1728-502X .
↑ Nagle, Thomas and Holden, Reed, The Strategy and Tactics of Pricing, Prentice Hall, 2002, pp 84-104.
↑ Mind of Marketing, "How your pricing and marketing strategy should be influenced by your customer's reference point" Archived 2015-03-11 at the Wayback Machine
↑ Dolan, Robert J. & Simon, Hermann (1996). Power Pricing . The Free Press . ISBN   978-0-684-83443-6 .
↑ Marn, M.V., Roegner, E.V. and Zawada, C.C., The power of pricing , McKinsey Quarterly , published on 1 February 2003, accessed on 12 August 2025
↑ Erasso, A. and Linnenkamp, M., "Beyond the Price Waterfall" Archived 2016-10-20 at the Wayback Machine , Sales Management Association, 2012, accessed on 27 March 2026
↑ Marn, M.V. and Rosiello, R.L. (1992), "Managing Price, Gaining Profit", Harvard Business Review , 70 (September–October 1992), pp. 84–94
↑ Competition and Markets Authority, Principles on food pricing display and promotional practices: OFT1527 , published by the Office of Fair Trading on 29 November 2012, archived on 11 April 2018, accessed on 9 November 2024
1 2 Bernstein, J., "Use Suppliers' Pricing Mistakes" Archived 2016-10-29 at the Wayback Machine , ControlGlobal.com , 2009
↑ Romis, Rafael. "Council Post: Three Ways to Crush E-Commerce: Busting Common Misconceptions" . Forbes .
Further reading
[ edit ]
William Poundstone , Priceless: The Myth of Fair Value (and How to Take Advantage of It) , Hill and Wang, 2010.
External links
[ edit ]
Wikibooks has a book on the topic of: Marketing
Look up pricing in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Engineering New Product Success: the New Product Pricing Process at Emerson Electric. A case study by Jerry Bernstein and David Macias . Published in Industrial Marketing Management .
How To Price and Sell Your Software Product , Redpoint Ventures
v
t
e
Microeconomics
Supply and demand
Demand / Law of demand
Supply / Law of supply
Elasticity
Cross elasticity of demand
Income elasticity of demand
Price elasticity of demand
Price elasticity of supply
Equilibrium
General
Externality
Income–consumption curve
Indifference curve
Price
Price controls
Price ceiling
Price floor
Price discrimination
Price signal
Price system / Free
Pricing
Scarcity
Shortage / Excess supply
Substitution effect
Surplus
Threshold population
Markets and Firms
Exchange
Economies of scale
Diseconomies of scale
Economies of scope
Returns to scale
Goods and services
Goods
Service
Household
Market failure
Market structure
Competition
Monopolistic
Perfect
Duopoly
Monopoly
Bilateral
Complementary
Monopsony
Oligopoly
Oligopsony
Production
Profit
Decision theory and behavioral economics
Budget set
Consumer choice
Cost
Average
Marginal
Opportunity
Implicit
Social
Sunk
Transaction
Cost–benefit analysis
Information
Intertemporal choice
Preferences
Rent
Risk aversion
Utility
Expected
Marginal
Welfare economics
Deadweight loss
Distribution
Pareto efficiency
Public goods
Rationing
Social choice
Wage
Econometrics and mathematical economics
Aggregation
Convexity and non-convexity
Uncertainty
Other subfields
Business
Computational
Development
Engineering economics
Civil engineering economics
Evolutionary
Experimental
Game theory
Green
Industrial organization
Institutional
Labour
Law and economics
Managerial
Mathematical
Microfoundations
Operations research
Optimization
See also
Economics
Applied
Macroeconomics
Political economy
Business portal
Category
v
t
e
Media manipulation
Context
Bias
Crowd psychology
Deception
Dumbing down
False balance
Half-truths
Media
Obfuscation
Persuasion
Manipulation (psychology)
Activism
Advocacy
group
Alternative media
Boycott
Call-out culture
Cancel culture
Civil disobedience
Culture jamming
Demonstrations
Deplatforming
Grassroots
Guerrilla communication
Hacktivism
Internet
Media
Occupations
Petitions
Protests
Youth
Advertising
Advertorial / Native advertising
Billboards
False
Infomercials
Mobiles
Modeling
Radio
Sex
Slogans
Testimonials
TV
Criticism of advertising
Annoyance factor
Censorship and
mass media regulation
Books
Broadcast law
Burying of scholars
Catch and kill
Corporate
Cover-ups
Euphemism
Films
Historical negationism
Internet
Political
Religious
Self
Hoaxing
Alternative facts
April Fools'
Deepfake
audio
Fake news
websites
Fakelore
Fictitious entries
Firehose of falsehood
Forgery
Gaslighting
List
Literary
Lying press
Photograph manipulation
Racial
Urban legend
Virus
Video manipulation
Marketing
Branding
Loyalty
Product
Product placement
Publicity
Research
Word of mouth
News media
Agenda-setting
Broadcasting
Circus
Cycle
Emotive conjugation
False balance
Infotainment
Managing
Narcotizing dysfunction
Newspeak
Pseudo-event
Scrum
Sensationalism
Tabloid journalism
Political campaigning
Advertising
Astroturfing
Attack ad
Canvassing
Character assassination
Dog whistle
Election promises
Lawn signs
Party platforms (or manifestos)
Name recognition
Negative
Push polling
Smear campaign
Wedge issue
Propaganda
Bandwagon
Big lie
Copaganda
Crowd manipulation
Disinformation
Fearmongering
Framing
Indoctrination
Loaded language
Media blackout
National mythology
" Outside agitators "
Protest paradigm
Rally 'round the flag effect
Techniques
Psychological warfare
Airborne leaflets
False flag
Fifth column
Information (IT)
Lawfare
Political
Public diplomacy
Sedition
Subversion
Public relations
Cult of personality
Doublespeak
Non-apology apology
Reputation management
Slogans
Sound bites
Spin
Transfer
Understatement
Weasel words
Corporate propaganda
Sales
Cold calling
Door-to-door
Pricing
Product demonstrations
Promotion
Spaving
Promotional merchandise
Telemarketing
Related
Brandolini's law
Influence-for-hire
Media bias
United States
Media concentration
Liar's dividend
Media democracy
Media ecology
Media ethics
Media franchise
Media influence
Media proprietor
v
t
e
Marketing
General
Marketing
History
American business
List of marketing terms
Digital
Direct
Account-based
Marketing management
Marketing mix
Marketing science
Marketing strategy
Micromarketing
Media manipulation
Advertising
History of advertising
Online Advertising
Types
Advertising management
Affinity marketing
Agile marketing
B2B Marketing
Brand awareness
Consumer confusion
Consumer behaviour
Content marketing
Database marketing
Demand chain
Email remarketing
Family in advertising
Food marketing
Guerrilla marketing
Internet marketing
Loyalty marketing
Macromarketing
Meta marketing
Mobile marketing
Multicultural marketing
Product management
Product marketing
Production orientation
Public Sector Marketing
Real-time marketing
Retail marketing
Return on marketing investment (ROMI)
Relationship marketing
Search Engine Marketing
Services marketing
Smarketing
Societal marketing
Social media marketing
Sustainable market orientation
Visual marketing
Viral Marketing
Web marketing
Word-of-mouth marketing
Tools
Focus group
Related
Mass psychology
Marketing failure
v
t
e
Supply chain performance drivers
Facilities
Information
Inventory
Pricing
Sourcing
Transportation
Authority control databases
National United States
Latvia
Israel
Other Yale LUX
Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pricing&oldid=1375975624 "
<div
[FOOTER] Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.