Marketing plan - Wikipedia
id="mw-content-text" class="mw-body-content"> Outline to execute a marketing objective
This article needs more citations . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Find sources:   "Marketing plan"   –   news   · newspapers   · books   · scholar   · JSTOR ( January 2019 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message )
Marketing
Key concepts
Account-based marketing
Activation
Annoyance factor
Attribution
Distribution
Brand licensing
Brand management
Cannibalization
Co-creation
Communications
Consumer behaviour
Consumer culture
Digital marketing
Dominance
Effectiveness
Ethics
Horizontal integration
Influencer marketing
Management
Mix
Pricing
Product marketing
Promotion
Retail
S-T-P
Segmentation
Targeting
Positioning
Service
Social marketing
Strategy
Vertical integration
Promotional content
Advertising
Ambush marketing
Branding
Corporate anniversary
Direct marketing
Franchising
Gender in advertising
Label
Loyalty marketing
Mobile marketing
On-hold messaging
Personal selling
Premiums
Prizes
Product placement
Propaganda
Publicity
Sales promotion
Sex in advertising
Underwriting spot
Promotional media
Behavioral targeting
Brand ambassador
Counter display unit
Display advertising
Display stand
Drip marketing
Endcap
Gondola
In-game advertising
Mobile advertising
Native advertising
New media
Online advertising
Out-of-home advertising
Point of sale
Product demonstration
Promotional merchandise
Merchandising
Promotional representative
Visual merchandising
Web banner
Word-of-mouth
Research
Market research
Marketing research
Mystery shopping
Consumer research
v
t
e
A marketing plan is a strategic document developed to achieve specific marketing objectives. It outlines a company's advertising and promotional activities for a defined period, describes the organization's current marketing position, and identifies the target market and marketing mix that will be used to achieve stated goals.
Marketing plans are typically developed by marketing managers in collaboration with product managers, product marketing managers, and sales teams. [ 1 ] A marketing plan usually forms part of a broader business plan. [ 2 ]
A comprehensive marketing plan may include historical performance data, market analysis, future projections, strategic approaches to achieving objectives, and an assessment of the organization's strengths and weaknesses, including those of its products and overall structure. [ 3 ]
Objectives
[ edit ]
Acquiring marketing share, increasing customer awareness, and building a favorable business image are some of the objectives that can be related to marketing planning. The marketing plan also helps layout the necessary budget and resources needed to achieve the goals stated in the marketing plan. It is able to show what the company is intended to accomplish within the budget and also makes it possible for company executives to assess potential return on the investment of marketing dollars. [ 1 ]
The marketing plan offers an opportunity for a productive discussion between employees and leaders of an organisation. The marketing plan also allows the marketing team to examine their past decisions and understand their results in order to better prepare for the future. It also lets the marketing team to observe and study the environment that they are operating in. [ 2 ]
Components
[ edit ]
Marketing plans start with the identification of customer needs through a market research and how the business can satisfy these needs while generating an acceptable return. Recent industry research has highlighted the role of briefing in this process, suggesting that unclear or poorly constructed marketing briefs can lead to misalignment between stakeholders and reduce the effectiveness of marketing execution, while well-defined briefs may improve strategic alignment and outcomes. [ 4 ] This includes processes such as market mix, research , situation analysis , segmentation , strategies , budgets , financial forecasts, competitive strategies , objective setting, and results monitoring. [ 3 ] [ 5 ] The marketing plan also shows the actions that will be taken, and the resources to be applied, in order to achieve planned goals. [ 3 ] [ 5 ] Marketing planning can also be used to prepare a detailed case for introducing a new product or revamping current marketing strategies for existing products. [ 3 ]
A complete marketing plan may include: [ 6 ]
Executive summary
Market research
Market environment (e.g. economic, legal, governmental, technological, ecological, sociocultural, supply chain)
Market analysis (e.g. market size, segmentation, industry structure, competitive analysis )
Consumer analysis (e.g. participants, demographics , psychographics )
Internal analysis (e.g. company finances, people, time, skills; objectives, mission statement , vision statement ; organizational culture )
Situation analysis (e.g. external threats and opportunities, internal strengths and weaknesses, critical success factors , sustainable competitive advantage )
Objective setting
Marketing Strategy
Product management (e.g. unique selling proposition , product mix , perceptual mapping , product life cycle management and new product development , branding ; product portfolio analysis: BCG analysis , contribution margin analysis , GE multifactorial analysis , quality function deployment )
Segmented marketing actions and market share objectives
Pricing (e.g. objectives , strategy , discounts and allowances , price elasticity , price zoning , break-even analysis )
Promotion (e.g. promotional mix , advertising, sales promotion , publicity , public relations , word-of-mouth marketing , viral marketing )
Distribution
Implementation (e.g. personnel, financial, management information systems , results monitoring, contingencies, project management )
Financial Summary (e.g. pro-forma monthly income statement )
Scenarios
Controls (e.g. performance indicators , feedback mechanisms )
Research
[ edit ]
Marketing research can be either internal or external. Internal research refers to creating better experiences and products for existing customers, while external research involves looking to gain new customers. [ 7 ]
Objective setting
[ edit ]
James Quinn defined objectives as "stat[ing] what is to be achieved and when results are to be accomplished", but not "how the results are to be achieved" . [ 8 ] Marketing objectives typically relate to what products will be where in what markets, based on customer behavior in those markets. Other objectives in a marketing plan include those for pricing, distribution, and advertising. Quinn describes marketing plans as generally concerned with "8 Ps": Price, Product, Promotion, Place, People, Physical environment, Process, and Packaging.
It is important to put both quantities and timescales into the marketing objectives.
Implementation
[ edit ]
Marketing plans typically use budgets, schedules and marketing metrics for monitoring and evaluating results. With budget, they can compare planned expenditures with actual expenditures for given period. Schedules allow management to see when tasks were supposed to be completed and when they actually were. Marketing metrics tracks actual outcomes of marketing programs to see whether the company is moving forward towards its objectives. [ 9 ] Apart from metrics, a specific action plan allows a marketing plan to better measure results and that criteria are met.
Elements of marketing performance that may be tracked include sales analysis, market share analysis, expense analysis, [ 10 ] and financial analysis (including figures such as profit, return on investment and contribution).
See also
[ edit ]
Business plan
Marketing
Marketing management
Strategic management
Product differentiation
References
[ edit ]
1 2 Kokemuller, Neil (February 2013). "Purposes of a Marketing Plan" . Houston Chronicle . Archived from the original on January 15, 2021 . Retrieved May 7, 2021 .
1 2 "Purpose of the Marketing Plan". Boundless Marketing (PDF) . Boundless (company) . pp.   166– 168 . Retrieved May 7, 2021 .
1 2 3 4 Westwood, John (2002). The Marketing Plan: A Step-by-step Guide (3rd   ed.). London : Kogan Page . ISBN   9780749437480 . OCLC   924803173 . Archived from the original on 2016-12-25 . Retrieved 2016-04-01 .
↑ "The BetterBriefs Report" . BetterBriefs . Retrieved 2026-04-14 .
1 2 "What is a Marketing Plan? - Definition & Sample" . Study.com . October 22, 2015. Archived from the original on October 30, 2020 . Retrieved May 7, 2021 .
↑ Baker, Michael (2008). The Strategic Marketing Plan Audit (2nd   ed.). Axminster : Cambridge Strategy Publications Limited. ISBN   9781902433998 . OCLC   816777034 . Archived from the original on May 6, 2021 . Retrieved May 7, 2021 .
↑ Spear, Carl H. (March 22, 2018). "Why it's important to have a marketing plan" . Optometry Times Journal . 10 (4). Archived from the original on April 12, 2021 . Retrieved April 12, 2021 .
↑ Quinn, James Brian (1980). Strategies for Change: Logical Incrementalism (6th   ed.). Homewood, Illinois : R.D. Irwin. ISBN   9780870942204 . OCLC   924995711 . Archived from the original on 2021-05-07 . Retrieved 2021-05-07 .
↑ (P. Kotler, K.L. Keller)
↑ Jensen, Katie (July 6, 2012). "How to Conduct a Revenue & Expense Account Analysis" . Small Business - Chron.com . Houston Chronicle . Archived from the original on January 17, 2021 . Retrieved May 7, 2021 .
Further reading
[ edit ]
H. A. Simon , "Rational decision making in business organisations," American Economic Review
J. Pfeffer and G. R. Salancik , The External Control of Organizations
K. Paolo Sumagaysay, "The oversaturated world"
Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Marketing_plan&oldid=1348774599 "
<div
[FOOTER] Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.