New product development - Wikipedia
id="mw-content-text" class="mw-body-content"> Complete process of bringing a new product to market
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page . ( Learn how and when to remove these messages )
This article needs attention from an expert in business, marketing or engineering . Please add a reason or a talk parameter to this template to explain the issue with the article. WikiProject Business , WikiProject Marketing   or WikiProject Engineering may be able to help recruit an expert. ( May 2024 )
This article needs more citations . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Find sources:   "New product development"   –   news   · newspapers   · books   · scholar   · JSTOR ( November 2019 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message )
( Learn how and when to remove this message )
The Ansoff matrix compares market penetration , product development, market development and diversification .
In business and engineering , new product development ( NPD ) or simply product development is the complete process of bringing a new product to market . Product development also includes renewing an existing product and introducing a product into a new market. New product development is the realization of a market opportunity by making a product available for purchase. [ 1 ] The products developed by a commercial organization provide the means to generate income . A central aspect of NPD is product design .
Many technology-intensive organizations exploit technological innovation in a rapidly changing consumer market. [ 2 ] A product can be a tangible asset or good or intangible services or user experiences . NPD requires an understanding of customer needs and wants, the competitive environment, and the nature of the market.
Cost, time, and quality are the main variables that drive customer needs. Aiming at these three variables, innovative companies develop continuous practices and strategies to better satisfy customer requirements and to increase their own market share by regular development of new products. There are many uncertainties and challenges which companies must face throughout the process. [ 2 ]
Overview
[ edit ]
New product development requires an understanding of customer needs and wants, the competitive environment, and the nature of the market. [ 3 ]
Cost, time, and quality are the main variables that drive customer needs. Product pricing involves achieving a balance between setting a price that will attract customer interest and achieving an acceptable level of return on the costs and time involved in developing the product. [ 4 ]
Process structure
[ edit ]
The product development process typically consists of several activities that firms employ in the complex process of delivering new products to the market. A process management approach is used to provide a structure. Product development often overlaps much with the engineering design process, particularly if the new product being developed involves application of math and/or science. Every new product will pass through a series of stages/phases, including ideation among other aspects of design , as well as manufacturing and market introduction. In highly complex engineered products (e.g. aircraft, automotive, machinery), the NPD process can be likewise complex regarding management of personnel, milestones, and deliverables. Such projects typically use an integrated product team approach. The process for managing large-scale complex engineering products is much slower (often 10-plus years) than that deployed for many types of consumer goods.
The development process is articulated and broken down in many different ways, often including the following phases/stages:
PHASE 1. Fuzzy front-end (FFE) is the set of activities employed before the more formal and well-defined requirements specification is completed. Requirements speaks to what the product should do or have, at varying degrees of specificity, in order to meet the perceived market or business need
The fuzzy front end (FFE) is the messy "getting started" period of new product engineering development processes. It is also referred to as the "Front End of Innovation", [ 5 ] or "Idea Management". [ 6 ]
It is in the front end where the organization formulates a concept of the product to be developed and decides whether or not to invest resources in the further development of an idea. [ 7 ] It is the phase between first consideration of an opportunity and when it is judged ready to enter the structured development process (Kim and Wilemon, 2007; [ 8 ] Koen et al., 2001). [ 5 ]
It includes all activities from the search for new opportunities through the formation of a germ of an idea to the development of a precise concept. The Fuzzy Front End phase ends when an organization approves and begins formal development of the concept.
Although the fuzzy front end may not be an expensive part of product development, it can consume 50% of development time (see Chapter 3 of the Smith and Reinertsen reference below), [ 9 ] and it is where major commitments are typically made involving time, money, and the product's nature, thus setting the course for the entire project and final end product. Consequently, this phase should be considered as an essential part of development rather than something that happens "before development", and its cycle time should be included in the total development cycle time.
Koen et al. (2001) distinguish five different front-end elements (not necessarily in a particular order): [ 5 ]
Opportunity Identification
Opportunity Analysis
Idea Genesis
Idea Selection
Idea and Technology Development
The first element is the opportunity identification. In this element, large or incremental business and technological chances are identified in a more or less structured way. Using the guidelines established here, resources will eventually be allocated to new projects, which then leads to a structured NPPD (New Product & Process Development) strategy.
The second element is opportunity analysis. It is conducted to translate the identified opportunities into implications for the business and technology-specific context of the company. At this stage, extensive efforts may be made to align ideas with target customer groups and conduct market studies and/or technical trials and research.
The third element is idea genesis, which is described as an evolutionary and iterative process that progresses from the birth of an opportunity to its maturation into a tangible idea. The idea genesis process can be carried out internally or may arise from external inputs, such as a supplier offering a new material or technology, or a customer making an unusual request.
The fourth element is idea selection. Its purpose is to determine whether an idea should be pursued by analyzing its potential business value.
The fifth element is the idea and technology development. During this part of the front-end, the business case is developed based on estimates of the total available market, customer needs, investment requirements, competition analysis and project uncertainty. Some organizations consider this to be the first stage of the NPPD process (i.e., Stage 0).
A universally acceptable definition for Fuzzy Front End or a dominant framework has not been developed so far. [ 10 ]
In a glossary by the Product Development and Management Association , [ 11 ] it is mentioned that the fuzzy front end generally consists of three tasks: strategic planning, idea generation, and pre-technical evaluation. These activities are often chaotic, unpredictable, and unstructured. In comparison, the subsequent new product development process is typically structured, predictable, and formal.
The term fuzzy front end was first popularized by Smith and Reinertsen (1991). [ 12 ]
R.G. Cooper (1988) [ 13 ] it describes the early stages of NPPD as a four-step process in which ideas are generated (I), subjected to a preliminary technical and market assessment (II) and merged to coherent product concepts (III) which are finally judged for their fit with existing product strategies and portfolios (IV).
PHASE 2: Product design is the development of both the high-level and detailed-level design of the product: which turns the what of the requirements into a specific how this particular product will meet those requirements. This typically has the most overlap with the engineering design process, but can also include industrial design and even purely aesthetic aspects of design. On the marketing and planning side, this phase ends at pre-commercialization analysis [ clarification needed ] stage.
PHASE 3: Product implementation often refers to later stages of detailed engineering design (e.g. refining mechanical or electrical hardware, or software, or goods or other product forms), as well as test process that may be used to validate that the prototype actually meets all design specifications that were established.
PHASE 4: Fuzzy back-end or commercialization phase represent the action steps where the production and market launch occur.
The front-end marketing phases have been very well researched, with valuable models proposed. Peter Koen et al. provides a five-step front-end activity called front-end innovation: opportunity identification, opportunity analysis, idea genesis, idea selection, and idea and technology development. He also includes an engine in the middle of the five front-end stages and the possible outside barriers that can influence the process outcome. The engine represents the management driving the activities described. The front end of the innovation is the greatest area of weakness in the NPD process. This is mainly because the FFE is often chaotic, unpredictable and unstructured. [ 14 ] Engineering design is the process whereby a technical solution is developed iteratively to solve a given problem. [ 15 ]
The design stage is very important because at this stage most of the product life cycle costs are incurred. Previous research shows that 70–80% of the final product quality and 70% of the product entire life-cycle cost are determined in the product design phase, therefore the design-manufacturing interface represent the greatest opportunity for cost reduction. [ 16 ]
Design projects last from a few weeks to three years with an average of one year. [ 17 ] Design and commercialization phases usually start with a very early collaboration. When the concept design is finished it will be sent to a manufacturing plant for prototyping, developing a Concurrent Engineering approach by implementing practices such as QFD , DFM / DFA and more. The output of the design (engineering) is a set of product and process specifications – mostly in the form of drawings, and the output of manufacturing is the product ready for sale. [ 18 ] Basically, the design team will develop drawings with technical specifications representing the future product, and will send it to the manufacturing plant to be executed. Solving product/process fit problems is of high priority in information communication design because 90% of the development effort must be scrapped if any changes are made after the release to manufacturing. [ 18 ]
Conceptual models
[ edit ]
Conceptual models have been designed in order to facilitate a smooth product development process.
Booz, Allen and Hamilton Model : One of the first developed models that companies still use in the NPD process is the Booz, Allen and Hamilton (BAH) Model, published in 1982. [ 19 ] This is the best-known model because it underlies the NPD systems that have been put forward later. [ 20 ] This model represents the foundation of all the other models that have been developed afterwards. Significant work has been conducted in order to propose better models, but in fact these models can be easily linked to the BAH model. The seven steps of the BAH model are: new product strategy , idea generation, screening and evaluation, business analysis, development, testing, and commercialization.
Exploratory product development model (ExPD) : Exploratory product development, which often goes by the acronym ExPD, is an emerging approach to new product development. Consultants Mary Drotar and Kathy Morrissey first introduced ExPD at the 2015 Product Development and Management Association annual meeting [ 21 ] and later outlined their approach in the Product Development and Management Association's magazine Visions . [ 21 ]
In 2015, Drotar and Morrissey's firm Strategy2Market received the trademark on the term "Exploratory PD". [ 22 ] Rather than going through a set of discrete phases, like the phase-gate process , this exploratory product development process allows organizations to adapt to a landscape of shifting market circumstances and uncertainty by using a more flexible and adaptable product development process for both hardware and software.
Where the traditional phase-gate approach works best in a stable market environment, ExPD is more suitable for product development in markets that are unstable and less predictable. Unstable and unpredictable markets cause uncertainty and risk in product development. Many factors contribute to the outcome of a project, and ExPD works on the assumption that the ones that the product team doesn't know enough about or are unaware of are the factors that create uncertainty and risk.
The primary goal of ExPD is to reduce uncertainty and risk by reducing the unknown. When organizations adapt quickly to the changing environment (market, technology, regulations, globalization, etc.), they reduce uncertainty and risk, which leads to product success. ExPD is described as a two-pronged, integrated systems approach. Drotar and Morrissey state that product development is complex and needs to be managed as a system, integrating essential elements: strategy, portfolio management, organization/teams/culture, metrics, market/customer understanding, and process. [ 21 ]
Drotar and Morrissey have published two books on ExPD. The first, Exploratory Product Development: Executive Version: Adaptable Product Development in a Changing World, was published as an e-book on December 3, 2018. [ 23 ] On September 8, 2022, Drotar and Morrissey published their second book, "Learn & Adapt: ExPD An Adaptive Product Development Process for Rapid Innovation and Risk Reduction, which also highlights their process. [ 24 ] The book has three sections: Overview of ExPD, How to Do It, and Adaptive Practices that Support ExPD. [ 25 ] According to Kirkus, "the (approach the) authors advocate is outwardly focused and premised on being adaptable enough to develop new competencies and create new models as complex situations evolve." Kirkus summarizes the text as "complex and visually stimulating; a serious blueprint for serious strategists." [ 24 ]
IDEO approach. The concept adopted by IDEO, a design and consulting firm, is one of the most researched processes in regard to new product development and is a five-step procedure. [ 26 ] These steps are listed in chronological order:
Understand and observe the market, the client, the technology, and the limitations of the problem;
Synthesize the information collected at the first step;
Visualise new customers using the product;
Prototype, evaluate and improve the concept;
Implementation of design changes, which are associated with more technologically advanced procedures and therefore will require more time.
Lean start-up approach : Lean startup is a methodology for developing businesses and products that aims to shorten product development cycles and rapidly discover if a proposed business model is viable; this is achieved by adopting a combination of business-hypothesis-driven experimentation, iterative product releases, and validated learning. Lean startup emphasizes customer feedback over intuition and flexibility over planning. This methodology enables recovery from failures more often than traditional ways of product development.
Stage-Gate model : “Stage-Gate Process: A widely employed product development process that divides the effort into distinct time-sequenced stages separated by management decision gates. Multifunctional teams must successfully complete a prescribed set of related cross-functional tasks in each stage prior to obtaining management approval to proceed to the next stage of product development. The framework of the Stage-Gate™ process includes workflow and decision-flow paths and defines the supporting systems and practices necessary to ensure the process's ongoing smooth operation. Source: [ 27 ]
&reg; is a [[registered trademark]] owned and protected by Stage-Gate Inc. Stage-Gate International, [https://www.stage-gate.com/trademark-notice/ Trademark Notice], accessed on 3 February 2025 "}},"i":0}}]}'> [ a ] A pioneer in the field of management of innovation and NPD is Robert G. Cooper. Since 1975, [ when? ] Cooper had conducted significant work in the field of management of innovation and NPD. [ 29 ] The Stage-Gate model, developed in the 1980s, was proposed as a new tool for managing new product development processes. This was mainly applied to physical products as opposed to software or services. [ 30 ] The 2010 APQC benchmarking study reveals that 88% of U.S. businesses employ a Stage-Gate system to manage new products, from idea to launch. In return, the companies that adopt this system are reported to receive benefits such as improved teamwork, improved success rates, earlier detection of failure, a better launch, and even shorter cycle times – reduced by about 30%. [ 31 ] These findings highlight the importance of the Stage-Gate model in the area of new product development.
The Stage-Gate model for major new products consists of five stages and five gates. [ 32 ] The stages are:
Ideation or Discovery
Stage 1: Concept or Scoping
Stage 2: Build Business Case
Stage 3: Development
Stage 4: Testing & Validation
Stage 5: Launch (commercialization)
These activities yield essential information to make a Go/No-Go to Development decision. These decisions represent the Gates in the Stage-Gate model.
Management
[ edit ]
The following are types of new product development management structures:
Customer-centric product development
[ edit ]
Customer-centric new product development focuses on finding new ways to solve customer problems and create more customer-satisfying experiences. Companies often rely on technology, but real success comes from understanding customer needs and values. The most successful companies are the ones that differentiated from others, solve major customer problems, offer a compelling customer value proposition, and engage customers directly, [ 33 ] and systematically. [ 34 ]
Systematic product development
[ edit ]
Systematic new product development focuses on creating a process that allows for the collection, review, and evaluation of new product ideas. [ 35 ]
Having a way in which employees, suppliers , distributors , and dealers become involved in finding and developing new products is important to a company's success. [ 36 ] Co-ordinated (and often early) involvement of suppliers in new product development has been seen as productive and generally advocated since the 1980s. [ 37 ] Early supplier involvement (ESI) is generally seen as cost-reducing, although account also needs to be taken of the danger of being locked into a supplier who can press for higher prices. [ 38 ] The Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply sets out four ESI phases:
Concept stage: initial design and sales forecasting
Specification of supply requirements with supplier input, quantifying orders and safety stock requirements, and confirming supplier selection
Working with the supplier on quality control, delivery standards and investment costs
Adopting a manufacturing methodology and securing efficiencies. [ 39 ]
Cost transparency, backed by appropriate contract terms and supplier audit requirements, can help a business to avoid being disadvantaged by undue supplier pressure. [ 40 ]
Other examples of collaborative product development work include international military collaboration in the development of new weapons systems , [ 41 ] and in the ICT sector , where Bruce et al . observe that collaboration among ICT companies "is the preferred route for product development". [ 42 ]
It is also important for companies to have a process in place for monitoring competitors and their products so that they can stay ahead of them. [ citation needed ]
Innovation management
[ edit ]
In order to successfully manage the new product development process, companies must have an innovation management system in place. [ why? ] This system helps to ensure that all aspects of new product development are taken into account and that the company is able to track and assess the progress of new products. An innovation manager is a senior person appointed to be responsible for implementing and managing such a system. [ citation needed ] The innovation management system should also help to foster a culture of innovation within the company, which can help to increase the chances of success for new products. [ citation needed ] Marketing writers Hyman and Wilkins argue that a company's rate of product innovation should fit between the extremes of being so rapid that "its core range decays" and so slow that its product range "become[s] obsolete". [ 33 ] Managers are responsible for ensuring that all aspects of new product development are taken into account and that the company is able to track and assess the progress of new products. [ citation needed ]
Cross-functional innovation management committee
[ edit ]
A cross-functional innovation management committee is a team of individuals from different company departments, including marketing , engineering, design, manufacturing, and research and development , who are responsible for overseeing and managing the new product development process. This committee helps to ensure that all aspects of new product development are taken into account and that the company is able to track and assess the progress of new products. Companies may get a better overall picture of new product development by putting together a cross-functional team, which can help generate fresh ideas and give assistance in evaluating them.
Other techniques
[ edit ]
In addition, companies can use virtual product development to help reduce costs. This process uses collaboration technology to remove the need for co-located teams, which can result in significant cost savings such as a reduction in G&A (general & administrative) overhead costs of consulting firms. [ citation needed ]
Another way to reduce the cost of new product development is through the use of 24-hour development cycles. This approach allows companies to develop products more quickly and at a lower cost. By using a 24-hour cycle, companies can shorten the time it takes to get a product to market, which can give them a competitive advantage and capability that can be extremely useful in cases where there is a sudden change in market conditions or customer needs. [ citation needed ]
Use in turbulent times
[ edit ]
In difficult economic times, it is even more important for companies to focus on innovation and new product development. [ 43 ] [ 44 ] Oftentimes, such situations result in a short-sighted focus on cost-cutting and a reduction in spending on new products. However, companies that are able to innovate and create new products will be better positioned for the future.
Although counter-intuitive, [ why? ] tough times may call for a greater emphasis on new product development. Companies may need to find ways to meet the changing needs and tastes of their customers. Innovation can help a company become more competitive and better positioned for the future. By using methods such as virtual product development and 24-hour development cycles, companies can reduce the cost of new product development and improve their chances of success.
Roles
[ edit ]
There are many different roles in a product development team: below is a list of some of the more common ones: [ 45 ] [ 46 ]
Product Development Roles and Responsibilities
Function
Roles
Product Management
Chief Product Officer (CPO)
Director of Product Management
Product Owner
Product Manager
User Experience (UX)
Director of User Experience
UX Designer
UI Designer
Product Designer
Product Analytics
Product Analyst
Business Analyst
Market Researcher
Product Marketing
Chief Marketing Officer (CMO)
Director of Marketing
Graphic Designer
Conceptual Design
Ideation Facilitator
Conceptual Designer
Engineering
Lead Engineer
Full Stack Developer
Technical Lead
Electrical Engineer
Embedded Systems Engineer
Mechanical Design Engineer
Application Developers
Related fields
[ edit ]
Brand management
Engineering
Industrial design
Marketing
Product design
Product management
See also
[ edit ]
Choice modelling
Commercialization
Conceptual economy
End user
Engineering information management
Ideation (creative process)
Industrial design
Innovation
Market penetration
Open innovation
Packaging
Pro-innovation bias
Product design
Product lifecycle
Research and development
Requirements management
Social design
Soft launch
Notes
[ edit ]
↑ Stage-Gate ® is a registered trademark owned and protected by Stage-Gate Inc. [ 28 ]
References
[ edit ]
↑ A dictionary of business and management (5th   ed.). Oxford University Press. 2009. ISBN   9780199234899 . OCLC   277068142 .
1 2 Innovation Management and New Product Development (5th   ed.). Pearson Education. 2012. ISBN   9780273736561 .
↑ Kahn, Kenneth B. (2012). The PDMA handbook of new product development (3   ed.). John Wiley & Sons Inc. ISBN   9780470648209 .
↑ Zuponcic, R. (2012), Guidelines to New Product Pricing Strategies , PricePoint Partners
1 2 3 Koen; et   al. (2001). "Providing clarity and a common language to the 'fuzzy front end' ". Research Technology Management . 44 (2): 46– 55. doi : 10.1080/08956308.2001.11671418 . S2CID   218755322 .
↑ Vandenbosch; et   al. (2006). "Idea Management: A Systemic View". Journal of Management Studies . 43 (2): 259– 288. doi : 10.1111/j.1467-6486.2006.00590.x . S2CID   144597695 .
↑ Sukhov, Alexandre (2018). "The role of perceived comprehension in idea evaluation" . Creativity and Innovation Management . 27 (2): 183– 195. doi : 10.1111/caim.12262 . S2CID   148625434 .
↑ Kim, J.; Wilemon, D. (2007). "Sources and assessment of complexity in NPD projects". R&D Management . 33 (1): 16– 30.
↑ Smith, Preston G. and Reinertsen, Donald G. (1998) Developing Products in Half the Time , 2nd Edition, John Wiley and Sons, New York, 1998.
↑ Husig and Kohn (2003), Factors influencing the Front End of the Innovation Process: A comprehensive Review of Selected empirical NPD and explorative FFE Studies, Brusell, Juni 2003, p.14.
↑ "The PDMA Glossary for New Product Development" . Product Development & Management Association. 2006. Archived from the original on 2009-03-21.
↑ Smith, Preston G., Reinertsen Donald G. (1991) Developing products in half the time, Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York
↑ Cooper, R.G. Predevelopment activities determine new product success, in: Industrial Marketing Management, Vol.17 (1988), No 2, pp. 237–248
↑ Koen, Peter A. (November 2007). "The fuzzy front-end for incremental, breakthrough and platform products and services" (PDF) . The PDMA Handbook of New Product Development . Consortium for corporate entrepreneurship. doi : 10.1002/9780470172483.ch6 . Archived from the original (PDF) on 2016-04-18.
↑ Smith, P. Robert; Eppinger, P. Steven (1997). "Identifying controlling features of engineering design iteration" (PDF) . Management Science . 43 (3): 276– 293. doi : 10.1287/mnsc.43.3.276 . hdl : 1721.1/2376 .
↑ Yan-mei, Zhou (2009). "Cost-benefit of interface management improvement in design-manufacturing chain". Chinese Academy of Science and Technology Management . 14 (3): 380– 384.
↑ Hargadon, Andrew (1997). "Technology brokering and innovation in a product development firm". Administrative Science Quarterly . 42 (4): 716– 749. doi : 10.2307/2393655 . JSTOR   2393655 .
1 2 Adler, S. Paul (1995). "Interdepartmental interdependence and coordination: the case of the design/manufacturing interface" (PDF) . Organization Science . 6 (2): 147– 167. doi : 10.1287/orsc.6.2.147 . S2CID   62164671 . Archived from the original (PDF) on 2020-02-09.
↑ Allen & Hamilton, Booz. "New products management for the 1980s". Booz, Allen & Hamilton – original from Indiana University.
↑ Bruiyan, Nadia (2011). "A framework for successful new product development". Journal of Industrial Engineering and Management . 4 (4): 746– 770.
1 2 3 "Exploratory PD: An Adaptive Product Development Process for a Complex World" . Visions . 40 : 16. April 2016 – via Product Development and Management Association.
↑ "USPTO" . Trademark Electronic Search System (TESS) . Retrieved July 18, 2019 .
↑ "Exploratory Product Development: Executive Version: Adaptable Product Development in a Changing World" . Amazon.com . Retrieved June 12, 2023 .
1 2 "LEARN & ADAPT: EXPD AN ADAPTIVE PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS FOR RAPID INNOVATION AND RISK REDUCTION" . Kirkus . June 8, 2023 . Retrieved June 12, 2023 .
↑ "E-book: Learn & Adapt: ExPD an Adaptive Product Development Process for Rapid Innovation and Risk Reduction" . Amazon.com Learn & Adapt: ExPD An Adaptive Product Development Process for Rapid Innovation and Risk Reduction . 27 July 2022.
↑ Moen, Ron. "A review of the IDEO process" . Archived from the original on 2016-02-07 . Retrieved 2014-10-22 .
↑ Bstieler, Ludwig and Nobel, Charles H. (2023) “Glossary.” The PDMA Handbook of Innovation and New Product Development (4th ed.), Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons Inc.: p 655. ISBN 978-1-119-89021-8 The PDMA Handbook of Innovation and New Product Development, 4th Edition | Wiley
↑ Stage-Gate International, Trademark Notice , accessed on 3 February 2025
↑ Cooper, Robert G. 2023. “New Products—What Separate the Winners From the Losers and What Drives Success.” The PDMA Handbook of Innovation and New Product Development, 4th edition, edited by Ludwig Bstieler, and Charles H. Noble. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, Chapter 1.
↑ Cooper, Robert (1990). "Stage-gate systems: A new tool for managing new products". Business Horizons . 33 (3): 44– 55. CiteSeerX   10.1.1.474.1777 . doi : 10.1016/0007-6813(90)90040-i . {{ cite journal }} : Cite uses deprecated parameter | citeseerx= ( help )
↑ Kenneth, Kahn (2013). The PDMA handbook of new product development (Third   ed.). Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons Inc. p.   34. ISBN   978-0-470-64820-9 .
↑ Cooper, Robert G. (March 2021). “Accelerating Innovation: Lessons from the Pandemic,” Journal of Product Innovation Management 38, 2: 1–11. Available at: National Library of Medicine, National Institute of Health (NIH): https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC8014561/
1 2 Hyman, J. and Wilkins, A., Where customers’ needs meet suppliers’ expertise (getting Marketing back to its roots) , Creative Problem Solving Group, Communiqué , volume 13, pp 21-25, 2002, accessed 29 August 2023
↑ Selden, Larry; MacMillan, Ian (April 2006). "Manage Customer Centric Innovation Systemically" . Harvard Business Review .
↑ Shipley, Thomas A.; Armacost, Robert L. (1993-09-01). "Systematic approach to new product development" . Computers & Industrial Engineering . 25 (1): 333– 336. doi : 10.1016/0360-8352(93)90289-A . ISSN   0360-8352 .
↑ "A systematic new product development methodology for creating affective products" . ResearchGate . Retrieved 2022-02-25 .
↑ Lakemond, N., Berggren, C. and van Weele, A., Coordinating supplier involvement in product development projects: a differentiated coordination typology , R&D Management 36, no. 1, 2006, doi : 10.1111/j.1467-9310.2005.00415.x , accessed on 3 February 2025
↑ Oxford College of Procurement and Supply, The Importance of Early Supplier Involvement , accessed on 5 April 2025
↑ Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply, What is early supplier involvement? , accessed on 5 April 2025
↑ Next Level Purchasing Association, 6 Early Supplier Involvement Tips , accessed on 5 April 2025
↑ Farr, C. M. and Fischer, W. A. (1992), Managing international high technology cooperative projects , R&D Management , Volume 22, Issue 1, doi : 10.1111/j.1467-9310.1992.tb00788.x , accessed on 5 August 2025
↑ Bruce, M., Leverick, F., Littler, D. and Wilson, D. (1995), Success factors for collaborative product development: a study of suppliers of information and communication technology , R&D Management , Volume 25, Issue 1, doi : 10.1111/j.1467-9310.1995.tb00898.x , accessed on 5 August 2025
↑ "Why innovation is crucial during a crisis" . Capgemini Worldwide . 2020-10-18 . Retrieved 2022-02-25 .
↑ "Innovation in a crisis: Why it is more critical than ever | McKinsey" . www.mckinsey.com . Retrieved 2022-02-25 .
↑ "What makes up the product team?" . www.aha.io . Retrieved 2021-04-13 .
↑ "Product Management Roles and Hierarchy - A List of All Product Management Roles" . airfocus.com . Retrieved 2021-04-13 .
External links
[ edit ]
Media related to Product development at Wikimedia Commons
v
t
e
Design
Outline
Designer
Concepts
Attributes
Brief
Change
Classic
Education
Studies
Elements
History
Knowledge
Language
Life
Load
Optimization
Paradigm
Philosophy
People
Director
Engineer
Principles
Rationale
Review
Specification
Studio
Technology
Tools
AAD
Architectural model
Blueprint
Comprehensive layout
CAD
CAID
Virtual home design software
CAutoD
Design quality indicator
Electronic design automation
Flowchart
Mockup
Design specification
Design system
Prototype
Sketch
Storyboard
Technical drawing
HTML editor
Website wireframe
Intellectual
property
Clean-room design
Community design
Design around
Design infringement
Design patent
Fashion design copyright
Geschmacksmuster
Industrial design rights
European Union
Organizations
American Institute of Graphic Arts
Chartered Society of Designers
Design and Industries Association
Design Council
International Forum Design
Design Research Society
Awards
European Design Award
German Design Award
Good Design Award (Museum of Modern Art)
Good Design Award (Chicago Athenaeum)
Graphex
IF Product Design Award
James Dyson Award
Prince Philip Designers Prize
Related
Agile
Concept art
Conceptual
Creative industries
Cultural icon
.design
Design competition
architectural
student
Design museum
Dominant design
Enterprise architecture
Form factor
Futures studies
Indie design
Innovation management
Lean startup
New product development
OODA loop
Process simulation
Reference design
Slow design
STEAM fields
Unintelligent design
Visualization
Wicked problem
Disciplines
Communication
design
Advertising
Book design
Brand design
Exhibit design
Film title design
Graphic design
Motion
Postage stamp design
Print design
Illustration
Information design
Instructional design
News design
Photography
Retail design
Signage   / Traffic sign design
Typography   / Type design
Video design
Visual merchandising
Environmental
design
Architecture
Architectural lighting design
Building design
Passive solar
Ecological design
Environmental impact design
Garden design
Computer-aided
Healthy community design
Hotel design
Interior architecture
Interior design
EID
Keyline design
Landscape architecture
Sustainable
Landscape design
Spatial design
Urban design
Industrial
design
Automotive design
Automotive suspension design
CMF design
Corrugated box design
Electric guitar design
Furniture design
Sustainable
Hardware interface design
Motorcycle design
Packaging and labeling
Photographic lens design
Product design
Production design
Sensory design
Service design
Interaction
design
Experience design
EED
Game design
Level design
Video game design
Hardware interface design
Icon design
Immersive design
Information design
Interactive design
Sonic interaction design
User experience design
User interface design
Web design
Other
applied arts
Public art design
Ceramic   / glass design
Fashion design
Costume design
Jewellery design
Floral design
Game art design
Property design
Scenic design
Sound design
Stage/set lighting design
Textile design
Other
design
& engineering
Algorithm design
Behavioural design
Boiler design
Database design
Drug design
Electrical system design
Experimental design
Filter design
Geometric design
Work design
Integrated circuit design
Circuit design
Physical design
Power network design
Mechanism design
Nuclear weapon design
Nucleic acid design
Organization design
Process design
Processor design
Protein design
Research design
Social design
Software design
Spacecraft design
Strategic design
Systems design
Test design
Approaches
Active
Activity-centered
Adaptive web
Affective
Bottom-up and top-down
Brainstorming
By committee
By contract
C-K theory
Closure
Configuration
Contextual
Continuous
Cradle-to-cradle
Creative problem-solving
Creativity techniques
Critical
Design fiction
Defensive
Design–bid–build
Design–build
architect-led
Diffuse
Domain-driven
Ecological design
Energy neutral
Engineering design process
Probabilistic design
Ergonomic
Error-tolerant
Evidence-based
Fault-tolerant
Feminist
For assembly
For behaviour change
For manufacturability
For Six Sigma
For testing
For the environment
For X
Framework-oriented
Functional
Generative
Geodesign
HCD
High-level
Hostile
Inclusive
Integrated
Integrated topside
Intelligence-based
Iterative
KISS principle
Low-level
Metadesign
Mind mapping
Modular
New Wave
Object-oriented
Open
Over
Parametric
Participatory
Platform-based
Policy-based
Prevention through
Process-centered
Public interest
Opinion poll
Public opinion
Rational
Regenerative
Reliability engineering
Research-based
Responsibility-driven
RWD
Safe-life
Speculative
Sustainable
Systemic
SOD
Tableless web
Theory of constraints
Transformation
Transgenerational
TRIZ
Universal
Design for All
Usage-centered
Use-centered
User-centered
Empathic
User innovation
Value-driven
Value sensitive
Privacy by
Quality by
Secure by
Design choice
computing
controls
culture
flow
justice
leadership
management
marker
methods
pattern
research
science
sprint
strategy
theory
thinking
Authority control databases
International GND
National Japan
Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=New_product_development&oldid=1376795976 "
<div
[FOOTER] Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.