Secondary research - Wikipedia
id="mw-content-text" class="mw-body-content"> Summary of research
Part of a series on
Research
Research design
Ethics
Proposal
Question
Writing
Argument
Referencing
Research strategy
Interdisciplinary
Multimethodology
Qualitative
Art-based
Quantitative
Philosophical schools
Antipositivism
Constructivism
Critical rationalism
Empiricism
Fallibilism
Positivism
Postpositivism
Pragmatism
Realism
Critical realism
Subtle realism
Methodology
Action research
Art methodology
Critical theory
Grounded theory
Hermeneutics
Historiography
Human subject research
Narrative inquiry
Phenomenology
Pragmatism
Scientific method
Methods
Analysis
Case study
Content analysis
Descriptive statistics
Discourse analysis
Ethnography
Autoethnography
Experiment
Field experiment
Social experiment
Quasi-experiment
Field research
Historical method
Inferential statistics
Interviews
Mapping
Cultural mapping
Phenomenography
Secondary research
Bibliometrics
Literature review
Meta-analysis
Scoping review
Systematic review
Scientific modelling
Simulation
Survey
Tools and software
Argument technology
GIS software
LIS software
Bibliometrics
Reference management
Science software
Qualitative data analysis
Simulation
Statistics
Philosophy portal
v
t
e
Secondary research involves the summary, collation and/or synthesis of existing research. Secondary research is contrasted with primary research in that primary research involves the generation of data, whereas secondary research uses primary research sources as a source of data for analysis. [ 1 ] A notable marker of primary research is the inclusion of a "methods" section, where the authors describe how the data was generated.
Common examples of secondary research include textbooks , encyclopedias , news articles, review articles , and meta analyses . [ 2 ] [ 3 ]
When conducting secondary research, authors may draw data from published academic papers, government documents, statistical databases , and historical records. [ 1 ] [ 4 ]
Fields
[ edit ]
The term is widely used in fields such as history, legal research , market research , and Wikipedia editing. The principal methodology in health secondary research is the systematic review , commonly using meta-analytic statistical techniques. Other methods of synthesis, like realist reviews and meta- narrative reviews, have been developed in the 21st century. [ 5 ]
Secondary market research includes the reuse by a second party of any data collected from a first party such as telephone interviews or surveys. Secondary market research can be broken up into two categories: information from internal sources such as an agency or company, and information from external sources held outside an organization or agency. [ 6 ] Secondary market research uses information from the past, reuses data already collected, and is more economical.
Primary research vs secondary research
[ edit ]
Primary research is research that is collected firsthand and is original to the person using it. [ 7 ] When conducting primary research, the goal is to answer questions that have not been answered in the published literature. [ 7 ] Additionally, the research has to be verified by others to help eliminate one's own biases. [ 8 ] Primary research can be a survey, observation, or an interview. This type of research tends to be more time consuming and can be costly. [ 9 ] If possible, secondary research should be done before primary research.
Secondary research is based on already published data and information gathered from other conducted studies. [ 8 ] It is a common practice by researchers to conduct secondary research before primary research in order to determine what information is not already available. [ 9 ] Secondary research is an easy place to start when starting a new research project. Secondary research can vary in credibility depending on where the data is coming from and who is sharing research. [ 10 ]
References
[ edit ]
1 2 "Primary and Secondary Sources" . library.ithaca.edu .
↑ Ormsby, Tim. "Search Smart: Types of Research: Secondary Research" . flinders.libguides.com . Archived from the original on 2020-12-01 . Retrieved 2018-03-13 .
↑ Andrews, Camille. "LibGuides: Scholarly Literature Types: Primary vs. Secondary Articles" . guides.library.cornell.edu .
↑ Bosch, Eileen. "LibGuides: Library Basics: Primary and Secondary Sources" . libguides.bgsu.edu .
↑ Greenhalgh, Trisha; Robert, Glenn; Macfarlane, Fraser; Bate, Paul; Kyriakidou, Olivia (2004). "Diffusion of innovations in service organizations: systematic review and recommendations" . Milbank Quarterly . 82 (4): 581– 629. doi : 10.1111/j.0887-378X.2004.00325.x . PMC   2690184 . PMID   15595944 .
↑ DeVault, G. (2019, June 25). Differences Between Primary and Secondary Market Research. Retrieved from https://www.thebalancesmb.com/what-is-secondary-market-research-2296890
1 2 Driscoll, Dana Lynn (2010). "Introduction to primary research: observations, surveys, and interviews" (PDF) . In Lowe, Charles; Zemliansky, Pavel (eds.). Writing Spaces: Readings on Writing . Vol.   2. West Lafayette, Ind.: Parlor Press. pp.   153– 174. ISBN   9781602351844 . OCLC   677865118 .
1 2 Church, Russell M. (February 2002). "The effective use of secondary data". Learning and Motivation . 33 (1): 32– 45. doi : 10.1006/lmot.2001.1098 .
1 2 McCrocklin, S. (2018, October 4). Primary vs. Secondary Research. Retrieved from https://www.geopoll.com/blog/primary-vs-secondary-research/
↑ Treadwell, D. F. (2016). Introducing communication research: paths of inquiry. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications.
Authority control databases
National United States
Israel
Other Yale LUX
Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Secondary_research&oldid=1329781476 "
<div
[FOOTER] Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.