Service (economics) - Wikipedia
id="mw-content-text" class="mw-body-content"> Activity for which payment is due
A restaurant waiter is an example of a service-related occupation.
A service is an act or use for which a consumer , company , or government is willing to pay . [ 1 ] Examples include work done by barbers, doctors, lawyers, accountants, mechanics, banks, finance, insurance companies, and so on. Public services are those that society (nation state, fiscal union or region) as a whole pays for, such as hospitals, elementary schools, or libraries. Using resources , skill, ingenuity, and experience, service providers give benefit to service consumers. Services may be defined as intangible acts or performances whereby the service provider provides value to the customer.
Characteristics
[ edit ]
Services have three characteristics: [ 2 ]
Intangibility
[ edit ]
Services are by definition intangible . They are not manufactured, transported or stocked. Unlike with durable goods , one cannot store services for future use. They are produced and consumed simultaneously.
Perishability
[ edit ]
Services are perishable in two regards:
Service-relevant resources, processes, and systems are assigned for service delivery during a specific period in time. If the service consumer does not request and consume the service during this period, the related resources may go unused. From the perspective of the service provider, this is a lost business opportunity if no other use for those resources is available. Examples: A hairdresser serves another client. An empty seat on an airplane cannot be filled after departure.
When the service has been completely rendered to the consumer, this particular service irreversibly vanishes. Example: a passenger has been transported to the destination.
The service provider must deliver the service at the exact time of service consumption. The service is not manifested in a physical object that is independent of the provider. The service consumer is also inseparable from service delivery. Examples: The service consumer must sit in the hairdresser's chair, or in the airplane seat. Correspondingly, the hairdresser or the pilot must be in the shop or plane, respectively, to deliver the service.
Variability
[ edit ]
Each service is unique. It can never be exactly repeated because the time, location, circumstances, conditions, current configurations, or assigned resources may differ for the next delivery, even if the same service is requested by the consumer. Many services are regarded as heterogeneous and are typically modified for each service consumer or for each service context. [ 2 ] Example: The taxi service which transports the service consumer from home to work is different from the taxi service which transports the same service consumer from work to home – another point in time, the other direction, possibly another route, probably another taxi-driver and cab. Another and more common term for this is heterogeneity . [ citation needed ]
Service quality
[ edit ]
Mass generation and delivery of services must be mastered for a service provider to expand. This can be seen as a problem of service quality . Both inputs and outputs to the processes involved providing services are highly variable, as are the relationships between these processes, making it difficult to maintain consistent service quality. Many services involve variable human activity, rather than a precisely determined process; exceptions include utilities . The human factor is often the key success factor in service provision. Demand can vary by season , time of day, business cycle , etc. Consistency is necessary to create enduring business relationships.
Specification
[ edit ]
Any service can be clearly and completely, consistently and concisely specified by means of standard attributes that conform to the MECE principle (Mutually Exclusive, Collectively Exhaustive).
Service consumer benefits – (set of) benefits that are triggerable, consumable and effectively utilizable for any authorized service consumer and that are rendered upon request. These benefits should be clearly defined in terms that are meaningful to consumers.
Service-specific functional parameters – parameters that are essential to the respective service and that describe the important dimension(s) of the servicescape , the service output or the service outcome, e.g. whether the passenger sits in an aisle or window seat.
Service delivery point – the physical location or logical interface where the benefits of the service are rendered to the consumer. At this point the service delivery preparation can be assessed and delivery can be monitored and controlled.
Service consumer count – the number of consumers that are enabled to consume a service.
Service delivery readiness time – the moments when the service is available and all the specified service elements are available at the delivery point
Service consumer support times – the moments when the support team ("service desk") is available. The service desk is the Single Point of Contact (SPoC) for service inquiries. At those times, the service desk can be reached via commonly available communication methods (phone, web, etc.)
Service consumer support language – the language(s) spoken by the service desk.
Service fulfillment target – the provider's promise to deliver the service, expressed as the ratio of the count of successful service deliveries to the count of service requests by a single consumer or consumer group over some time period.
Service impairment duration – the maximum allowable interval between the first occurrence of a service impairment and the full resumption and completion of the service delivery.
Service delivery duration – the maximum allowable period for effectively rendering all service benefits to the consumer.
Service delivery unit – the scope/number of action(s) that constitute a delivered service. Serves as the reference object for the Service Delivering Price, for all service costs as well as for charging and billing.
Service delivery price refers to the amount of money a customer pays to receive a service. Typically, the price includes a service access fee that qualifies the consumer to request the service and a service consumption fee for each delivered service.
Delivery
[ edit ]
Coffee house   – a type of service delivery
The delivery of a service typically involves six factors:
Service provider (workers and managers)
Equipment used to provide the service (e.g. vehicles, cash registers, technical systems, computer systems)
Physical facilities (e.g. buildings, parking, waiting rooms)
Service consumer
Other customers at the service delivery location
Customer contact
The service encounter is defined as all the activities involved in the service delivery process.
Many business theorists view service provision as a performance or act (sometimes humorously referred to as dramalurgy , perhaps in reference to dramaturgy ). The location of the service delivery is referred to as the stage and the objects that facilitate the service process are called props . A script is a sequence of behaviors followed by those involved, including the client(s). Some service dramas are tightly scripted, others are more ad lib . Role congruence occurs when each actor follows a script that harmonizes with the roles played by the other actors. [ citation needed ]
In some service industries, especially health care, dispute resolution and social services, a popular concept is the idea of the caseload, which refers to the total number of patients, clients, litigants, or claimants for which a given employee is responsible. Employees must balance the needs of each individual case against the needs of all other current cases as well as their own needs. [ citation needed ]
Under English law , if a service provider is induced to deliver services to a dishonest client by a deception, this is an offence under the Theft Act 1978 . [ citation needed ]
Lovelock used the number of delivery sites (whether single or multiple) and the method of delivery to classify services in a 2 x 3 matrix. Then implications are that the convenience of receiving the service is the lowest when the customer has to come to the service and must use a single or specific outlet. Convenience increases (to a point) as the number of service points increase. [ citation needed ]
Service-commodity goods continuum
[ edit ]
Service-Commodity Goods continuum
The distinction between a good and a service remains disputed. The perspective in the late-eighteenth and early-nineteenth centuries focused on creation and possession of wealth. Classical economists contended that goods were objects of value over which ownership rights could be established and exchanged. Ownership implied tangible possession of an object that had been acquired through purchase, barter or gift from the producer or previous owner and was legally identifiable as the property of the current owner.
Adam Smith 's famous book, The Wealth of Nations , published in 1776 , distinguished between the outputs of what he termed "productive" and "unproductive" labor. The former, he stated, produced goods that could be stored after production and subsequently exchanged for money or other items of value. The latter, however useful or necessary, created services that perished at the time of production and therefore did not contribute to wealth. Building on this theme, French economist Jean-Baptiste Say argued that production and consumption were inseparable in services, coining the term "immaterial products" to describe them.
In the modern day, Gustofsson & Johnson describe a continuum with pure service on one terminal point and pure commodity good on the other. [ 3 ] Most products fall between these two extremes. For example, a restaurant provides a physical good (the food ), but also provides services in the form of ambience, the setting and clearing of the table, etc. And although some utilities actually deliver physical goods — like water utilities that deliver water — utilities are usually treated as services. [ citation needed ]
Service types
[ edit ]
Marketing
Key concepts
Account-based marketing
Activation
Annoyance factor
Attribution
Distribution
Brand licensing
Brand management
Cannibalization
Co-creation
Communications
Consumer behaviour
Consumer culture
Digital marketing
Dominance
Effectiveness
Ethics
Horizontal integration
Influencer marketing
Management
Mix
Pricing
Product marketing
Promotion
Retail
S-T-P
Segmentation
Targeting
Positioning
Service
Social marketing
Strategy
Vertical integration
Promotional content
Advertising
Ambush marketing
Branding
Corporate anniversary
Direct marketing
Franchising
Gender in advertising
Label
Loyalty marketing
Mobile marketing
On-hold messaging
Personal selling
Premiums
Prizes
Product placement
Propaganda
Publicity
Sales promotion
Sex in advertising
Underwriting spot
Promotional media
Behavioral targeting
Brand ambassador
Counter display unit
Display advertising
Display stand
Drip marketing
Endcap
Gondola
In-game advertising
Mobile advertising
Native advertising
New media
Online advertising
Out-of-home advertising
Point of sale
Product demonstration
Promotional merchandise
Merchandising
Promotional representative
Visual merchandising
Web banner
Word-of-mouth
Research
Market research
Marketing research
Mystery shopping
Consumer research
v
t
e
The following is a list of service industries, grouped into sectors. Parenthetical notations indicate how specific occupations and organizations can be regarded as service industries to the extent they provide an intangible service, as opposed to a tangible good.
Business functions (that apply to all organizations in general)
Consulting
Customer service
Human resources administrators (providing services like ensuring that employees are paid accurately)
Cleaning , patronage, repair and maintenance services
Gardeners
Janitors (who provide cleaning services)
Mechanics
Construction
Carpentry
Electricians (offering the service of making wiring work properly)
Plumbing
Death care
Coroners (who provide the service of identifying cadavers and determining time and cause of death)
Funeral homes (who prepare corpses for public display, cremation or burial)
Dispute resolution and prevention services
Arbitration
Courts of law (who perform the service of dispute resolution backed by the power of the state )
Diplomacy
Incarceration (provides the service of keeping criminals out of society)
Law enforcement (provides the service of identifying and apprehending criminals)
Lawyers (who perform the services of advocacy and decisionmaking in many dispute resolution and prevention processes)
Mediation
Military (performs the service of protecting states in disputes with other states)
Negotiation (not really a service unless someone is negotiating on behalf of another)
Education (institutions offering the services of teaching and access to information)
Library
Museum
School
Entertainment (when provided live or within a highly specialized facility)
Gambling
Movie theatres (providing the service of showing a movie on a big screen)
Performing arts productions
Sport
Television
Fabric care
Dry cleaning
Laundry
Financial services
Accountancy
Banks and building societies (offering lending services and safekeeping of money and valuables)
Real estate
Stock brokerages
Tax services
Valuation
Foodservice industry
Health care (all health care professions provide services)
Hospitality industry
Information services
Database services
Data processing
Interpreting
Translation
Logistics
Transport
Warehousing
Stock management
Packaging
Personal grooming
Body hair removal
Dental hygienist
Hairdressing
Manicurist / pedicurist
Public utility
Electric power
Natural gas
Telecommunications
Waste management
Water industry
Risk management
Insurance
Security
Social services
Social work
Childcare
Elderly care
Statistics
[ edit ]
List of countries by GDP sector composition
List of countries by service exports and imports
See also
[ edit ]
As a service
Deliverable
Intangible good
Services marketing
Universal basic services
References
[ edit ]
↑ McConnell, Campbell R.; et   al. (2009). Economics. Principles, Problems and Policies (PDF) (18th   ed.). New York: McGraw-Hill. ISBN   978-0-07-337569-4 . Archived from the original (PDF contains full textbook) on 6 October 2016. , Glossary, p. G-25.
1 2 Harrison, Tina; Estelami, Hooman (5 December 2014). The Routledge Companion to Financial Services Marketing . Routledge. ISBN   9781134095629 .
↑ Anders Gustofsson and Michael D. Johnson, Competing in a Service Economy (San Francisco: Josey-Bass, 2003), p.7.
Further reading
[ edit ]
SO Player   :
Zeithaml, Valarie A.; Parasuraman, A.; Berry, Leonard L. (1990). Delivering Quality Service: Balancing Customer Perceptions and Expectations . Simon and Schuster. ISBN   978-0-02-935701-9 .
Valerie Zeithaml, A. Parasumaran, Leonhard Berry (1990): SERVQUAL
Sharon Dobson: Product and Services Strategy
John Swearingen: Operations Management   – Characteristics of services
James A. Fitzsimmons, Mona J. Fitzsimmons: Service Management   – Operations, Strategy, Information Technology
Russell Wolak, Stavros Kalafatis, Patricia Harris: An Investigation Into Four Characteristics of Services
Sheelagh Matear , Brendan Gray, Tony Garrett, Ken Deans: Moderating Effects of Service Characteristics on the Sources of Competitive Advantage   – Positional Advantage Relationship
Johnston, Robert; Clark, Graham (2008). Service Operations Management: Improving Service Delivery . Financial Times/Prentice Hall. ISBN   978-1-4058-4732-2 .
Petit, Pascal (1991). "Services". In Eatwell, John; Newman, Peter K.; Milgate, Murray (eds.). The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics . Vol.   4. Macmillan. pp.   314– 15. ISBN   978-0-333-37235-7 .
Alan Pilkington , Kah Hin Chai, "Research Themes, Concepts and Relationships: A study of International Journal of Service Industry Management (1990 to 2005)", International Journal of Service Industry Management, (2008) Vol. 19, No. 1, pp.   83–110.
Downton, Steve; Rustema, Hilbrand; van Veen, Jan (1 August 2010). Service Economics: Profitable Growth with a Brand Driven Service Strategy . Novetum Service Management, Limited. ISBN   978-9963-9838-0-3 .
External links
[ edit ]
Media related to Services (economics) at Wikimedia Commons
v
t
e
Economics
Theoretical
Microeconomics
Decision theory
Price theory
Game theory
Contract theory
Mechanism design
Macroeconomics
Mathematical economics
Complexity economics
Computational economics
Agent-based computational economics
Behavioral economics
Pluralism in economics
Empirical
Econometrics
Economic statistics
Experimental economics
Economic history
Applied
Agriculture
Business
Cultural
Demographic
Development
Ecological
Education
Engineering
Environmental
Evolutionary
Financial
Geographic
Happiness
Health
History
Information
Infrastructure
Institutions
Labour
Law
Management
Non-monetary
Organization
Participation
Personnel
Planning
Policy
Public sector
Public choice
Social choice
Regional
Regulatory
Resources
Rural
Service
Transport
Urban
Welfare
Schools
( history )
Attention
Mainstream
Heterodox
American (National)
Ancient thought
Austrian
Behavioral
Buddhist
Chartalism
Modern monetary theory
Chicago
Classical
Critique of political economy
Democratic
Disequilibrium
Ecological
Evolutionary
Feminist
Freiwirtschaft
Georgism
Happiness
Historical
Humanistic
Institutional
Keynesian
Neo- ( neoclassical–Keynesian synthesis )
New
Post-
Circuitism
Malthusianism
Marginalism
Marxian
Neo-
Mercantilism
Mixed
Mutualism
Neoclassical
Lausanne
New classical
Real business-cycle theory
New institutional
Physiocracy
Socialist
Stockholm
Supply-side
Thermo
Lists
Glossary
Economists
Publications   ( journals )
Schools
Category
Index
Lists
Outline
Publications
Business portal
v
t
e
Microeconomics
Supply and demand
Demand / Law of demand
Supply / Law of supply
Elasticity
Cross elasticity of demand
Income elasticity of demand
Price elasticity of demand
Price elasticity of supply
Equilibrium
General
Externality
Income–consumption curve
Indifference curve
Price
Price controls
Price ceiling
Price floor
Price discrimination
Price signal
Price system / Free
Pricing
Scarcity
Shortage / Excess supply
Substitution effect
Surplus
Threshold population
Markets and Firms
Exchange
Economies of scale
Diseconomies of scale
Economies of scope
Returns to scale
Goods and services
Goods
Service
Household
Market failure
Market structure
Competition
Monopolistic
Perfect
Duopoly
Monopoly
Bilateral
Complementary
Monopsony
Oligopoly
Oligopsony
Production
Profit
Decision theory and behavioral economics
Budget set
Consumer choice
Cost
Average
Marginal
Opportunity
Implicit
Social
Sunk
Transaction
Cost–benefit analysis
Information
Intertemporal choice
Preferences
Rent
Risk aversion
Utility
Expected
Marginal
Welfare economics
Deadweight loss
Distribution
Pareto efficiency
Public goods
Rationing
Social choice
Wage
Econometrics and mathematical economics
Aggregation
Convexity and non-convexity
Uncertainty
Other subfields
Business
Computational
Development
Engineering economics
Civil engineering economics
Evolutionary
Experimental
Game theory
Green
Industrial organization
Institutional
Labour
Law and economics
Managerial
Mathematical
Microfoundations
Operations research
Optimization
See also
Economics
Applied
Macroeconomics
Political economy
Business portal
Category
Authority control databases
International GND
National Japan
služby "}]]}'> Czech Republic
Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Service_(economics)&oldid=1373415372 "
<div
[FOOTER] Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.