Barriers to entry - Wikipedia
id="mw-content-text" class="mw-body-content"> Economic theory
This article is part of a series on
Competition law
Basic concepts
Barriers to entry
Competition
Effective competition
Competition law theory
Economic moat
History of competition law
Market concentration
Monopoly and oligopoly
Coercive
Government-granted monopoly
Market domination
Natural monopoly
State and Legal monopoly
Market power
Market share analysis
Monopoly profit
Price gouging
Relevant market
Regulatory economics
Anti-competition
Collusion
Dividing territories
Formation of cartels
Price fixing ( List )
Bid rigging
Tacit collusion
Occupational licensing and closure
Cornering the market
Embrace, extend, and extinguish
Exclusive dealing
Horizontal integration
Mergers and acquisitions
Monopolization
Non-compete clause
Misuse of patents and copyrights
Predatory pricing
Dumping (pricing policy)
Product bundling and tying
Raising rivals' costs
Refusal to deal
Group boycott
Essential facilities
Regulatory capture
Noerr–Pennington doctrine
Parker immunity doctrine
Rent-seeking
Vendor lock-in
Vertical integration
Measures
Herfindahl–Hirschman index
Lerner index
Market share
Profit margin
SSNIP test
Mitigation
Excess profits tax
Local-loop unbundling
Market share liability
Merger control
Competition regulators
List of competition regulators
International Competition Network
Law portal
Outline
Lists
Index
Category
v
t
e
In theories of competition in economics , a barrier to entry , or an economic barrier to entry , is a fixed cost that must be incurred by a new entrant, regardless of production or sales activities, into a market that incumbents do not have or have not had to incur. [ 1 ]
Because barriers to entry protect incumbent firms and restrict competition in a market, they can contribute to distortionary prices and are therefore most important when discussing antitrust policy. Barriers to entry often cause or aid the existence of monopolies and oligopolies , or give companies market power .
Barriers of entry also have an importance in industries.
Governments can also create barriers to entry to meet consumer protection laws, protecting the public.
Definitions
[ edit ]
Various conflicting definitions of "barrier to entry" have been put forth since the 1950s. This has caused there to be no clear consensus on which definition should be used. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ]
McAfee, Mialon, and Williams list seven common definitions in economic literature in chronological order including: [ 1 ]
In 1956, Joe S. Bain used the definition "an advantage of established sellers in an industry over potential entrant sellers, which is reflected in the extent to which established sellers can persistently raise their prices above competitive levels without attracting new firms to enter the industry." McAfee et al. criticized this as being tautological by putting the "consequences of the definition into the definition itself."
In 1968, George Stigler defined an entry barrier as "A cost of producing that must be borne by a firm which seeks to enter an industry but is not borne by firms already in the industry." McAfee et al. criticized the phrase "is not borne" as being confusing and incomplete by implying that only current costs need be considered.
In 1979, Franklin M. Fisher gave the definition "anything that prevents entry when entry is socially beneficial." McAfee et al. criticized this along the same lines as Bain's definition.
In 1981, Baumol and Willig gave the definition "An entry barrier is anything that requires an expenditure by a new entrant into an industry, but that imposes no equivalent cost upon an incumbent"
In 1994, Dennis Carlton and Jeffrey Perloff gave the definition, "anything that prevents an entrepreneur from instantaneously creating a new firm in a market." Carlton and Perloff then dismiss their own definition as impractical and instead use their own definition of a "long-term barrier to entry" which is defined very closely to the definition in the introduction.
In 2011, Wheelen and Hunger gave the definition "an obstruction that makes it difficult for a company to enter an industry". [ 4 ]
A primary barrier to entry is a cost that constitutes an economic barrier to entry on its own. An ancillary barrier to entry is a cost that does not constitute a barrier to entry by itself, but reinforces other barriers to entry if they are present. [ 1 ] [ 5 ]
An antitrust barrier to entry is "a cost that delays entry and thereby reduces social welfare relative to immediate but equally costly entry". [ 1 ] This contrasts with the concept of economic barrier to entry defined above, as it can delay entry into a market but does not result in any cost-advantage to incumbents in the market. All economic barriers to entry are antitrust barriers to entry, but the converse is not true.
Examples
[ edit ]
Porter's barriers to entry
[ edit ]
An article produced by Michael Porter in 2008 stated that new entrants to an industry have the desire to gain market share, and often substantial resources. The seriousness of the threat of entry depends on the barriers present and on the reaction from existing competitors.
Michael Porter's article shows 6 main sources of barriers to entry for entrants: [ 6 ]
The first barrier to entry found in the article is the supply-side economies of scale. These scales arise when incumbents produce larger volumes of their product for a lower total cost. This can occur if they spread their fixed costs over more units, utilize a more efficient technology or are on better terms with their suppliers.
The second barrier to entry is the demand-side benefits of scale or network effects. According to Porters article, this arises when a buyer's willingness to pay for a company's product increases with the number of other buyers who also patronize the company. Essentially, through network effects the buyers may trust the larger companies more than smaller ones. This barrier discourages the entrant due to incumbent's embedded data and the structural adjustment programs made internally.
The third barrier is capital requirements for the initial investment and running of a company. Companies often require a large amount of capital when starting to pay for fixed facilities but also produce their inventory and fund start-up losses. The magnitude of the barrier increases if the capital is required for unrecoverable expenditure such as advertising and research and development.
The fourth barrier is incumbency advantages independent of size. For the incumbent, this barrier theoretically gives them a cost and quality advantage over the entrants. Specifically, these are often regarding proprietary technology, preferential access to raw materials, favourable geographic locations, established brand identities and even cumulative experience. This barrier more specifically outlines the favourable traits incumbents adopt over-time due to their established place in the industry, making it unavoidable for entrants in certain industries.
The fifth barrier is the unequal access to distribution channels between the incumbents and the entrants. Most companies require some type of distribution channel for the transport of their product. In the case where entrants cannot bypass this barrier, they end up forming their own distribution channel. The problem for entrants is that the more limited the wholesale and retail channels are, the more competitors have tied them up and consequently the more difficult entry into the industry will be.
The final barrier is restrictive government policy. Importantly, this barrier can either aid or hinder an entrant and even effect the other barriers. Restrictive government policies can block entrance through licensing requirements and restrictions on foreign investments. A clear example these may include the alcohol and taxi industries. Policies can heighten other entry barriers through intellectual property laws and even environmental and safety regulations that raise economies of scale for entrants.
Furthermore, a potential new market entrant's expectations about the reaction of the existing competitors within the industry will also be a contributing factor on their decision to enter the market.
An entrant may reconsider entering an industry or choose a new one altogether if incumbents have displayed conscious reactions to entrants in the past. Another discouraging indication for an entrant is if the incumbent is in possession of substantial resources to respond to an entrant. These resources generally consist of excess cash and unused borrowing power. This may also allow for incumbents to lower prices to either keep their market share or lower their excess capacity, another discouraging sign for an entrant. [ 7 ]
Primary economic barriers to entry
[ edit ]
Distributor agreements – Exclusive agreements with key distributors or retailers can make it difficult for other manufacturers to enter an industry. This is a particular problem if, prior to entry, the other firms in the market use intensive distribution strategies in order to restrict the access of potential entrants to distributors. [ 8 ] In response, if access to existing distribution channels is too difficult, new entrants may create their own. For example, new low-cost airlines often encourage passengers to book online instead of through travel agents. [ 6 ]
Intellectual property – A potential entrant requires access to production technology as efficient as that of the combatant monopolist in order to freely enter a market. Patents , however, give a firm the legal right to stop other firms from producing a product for a given period of time, and so restrict entry. Patents are intended to encourage invention and technological progress by guaranteeing proceeds as an incentive. Similarly, trademarks and servicemarks may represent a kind of entry barrier for a particular product or service if the market is dominated by one or a few well-known names. Incumbent firms may have an exclusive right to use the brand name, making it expensive or impossible for new entrants to license rights to names. [ 8 ]
Capital requirements - Many industries require the investment of large financial resources to start a new business, which deters new entrants. For example, new airlines require millions of dollars for purchasing planes, staff training etc. In addition, new entrants often experience serious difficulties in raising funds for unrecoverable expenses, such as advertising and R&D. In the pharmaceutical industry, for instance, companies may invest heavily in research in order to develop Covid vaccines, then end up with disappointing results and lose all of their investment. [ 6 ]
Restrictive practices – Established policies may protect existing players and restrict entry. For instance, air transport agreements may make it difficult for new airlines to obtain landing slots at some airports . Or Certificate of Need (CON) laws in some of US states may require medical service providers to file an application and prove community need before offering their services—a practice that has been found to benefit incumbents. [ 9 ]
Supplier agreements – Exclusive agreements with businesses that represent key links in the supply chain can make it difficult for other manufacturers to enter an industry, e.g. when suppliers offer significant discounts to certain buyers or offer their product exclusively.
Customer Switching barriers – At times, it may be difficult or expensive for customers to switch providers, especially if they have to retrain employees or modify internal information systems. [ 6 ] Indeed, switching costs are often intentionally made high in order to discourage customers from changing suppliers and adopting the technological innovations provided by others. [ 8 ]
Tariffs – Taxes on imports prevent foreign firms from entering into domestic markets.
Taxes – Smaller companies typically fund expansions out of retained profits so high tax rates hinder their growth and ability to compete with existing firms. Larger firms may be better able to avoid high taxes through either loopholes written into law favoring large companies or by using their larger tax accounting staffs to better avoid paying the higher taxes.
Zoning – Government allows certain economic activity in specified land areas but excludes others, allowing monopoly over the land needed.
Contentious examples
[ edit ]
The following examples are sometimes cited as barriers to entry, but don't fit all the commonly cited definitions of a barrier to entry. Many of these fit the definition of antitrust barriers to entry or ancillary economic barriers to entry.
Economies of scale – Cost advantages raise the stakes in a market, which can deter and delay entrants into the market. Bulk buying offers buyers larger negotiating power to get the lowest price and they take advantage on that. This makes scale economies an antitrust barrier to entry, but they can also be ancillary. [ 1 ] The per-unit cost will be lower in scale economies due to the spread of fixed costs to larger volumes, technology efficiencies and better supplier terms, therefore new entrants join the industry either on a large scale or at a cost disadvantage. [ 6 ] Cost advantages can sometimes be quickly reversed by advances in technology. For example, the development of personal computers has allowed small companies to make use of database and communications technology which was once extremely expensive and only available to large corporations.
Network effect /Demand-side benefits of scale – When a good or service has a value that increases on average for every additional customer, this exerts a similar antitrust and ancillary barrier to that of economies of scale. [ 1 ] Customers are more willing to buy crucial products from larger companies than newcomers. It increases the difficulty of entering the industry or reduces the initial profit margins for new entrants. [ 6 ]
Government regulations – Government regulations are rules having the force of law, prescribed by a superior or competent authority, relating to the actions of those under the authority's control. Licences, for example, may be required when entering a specific field, particularly in industries that are heavily protected by the government. As a result, the field is dominated by government-owned firms (e.g., energy), or existing players are protected in the market (e.g., Taxi service or TV). The regulations themselves may set the barriers for not letting others to enter a market, or requirements for licenses and permits may raise the level of investment required, creating an antitrust barrier to entry. [ 8 ] [ 6 ] However, sometimes government regulations may make entry easier, such as AIR-21 which requires airports to make facilities available to access by all carriers. [ 10 ]
Grandfather clauses can result in a bias against new entrants. [ 11 ]
Advertising – Incumbent firms can seek to make it difficult for new competitors by spending heavily on advertising that new firms would find more difficult to afford or unable to staff and or undertake. This is known as the market power theory of advertising . [ 12 ] Here, established firms' use of advertising creates a consumer perceived difference in its brand from other brands to a degree that consumers see its brand as a slightly different product. [ 12 ] Since the brand is seen as a slightly different product, products from existing or potential competitors cannot be perfectly substituted in place of the established firm's brand. [ 12 ] This makes it hard for new competitors to gain consumer acceptance. [ 12 ] It reflected by brand promoting and the increase of customer loyalties. [ 8 ]
Capital – Investments in equipment, building, and raw materials may represent ancillary barriers, particularly in the case of sunk costs , [ 1 ] which can increase the strength of barriers to entry. Sunk costs may also lead to monopoly profits, improper resource allocation and low efficiency. [ 8 ] For capital-intensive industries, entrants will also need much more financial capital. [ 8 ]
Uncertainty – When a market actor has various options with overlapping possible profits, choosing any one of them has an opportunity cost . This cost might be reduced by waiting until conditions are clearer, which can result in an ancillary antitrust barrier.
Incumbency advantages independent of scale – Incumbents often have advantages over newcomers, including proprietary technology, know-how, favorable access to raw materials, favorable geographic locations, established brand reputation and learning curve cost advantages. It is reflected by learning curve effects and economies of scale , and it is one of the most critical barriers to entry strategies. [ 8 ] [ 6 ]
Vertical integration – Vertical integration, a firm's coverage of more than one level of production while pursuing practices which favor its own operations at each level, is often cited as an entry barrier as it requires a similar large-scale effort on the part of competitors.
Research and development – Some products, such as microprocessors , require a large upfront investment in technology which will deter potential entrants. The existing firms in the market may also use efficient investments in research and development to increase technological economies of scale, and boost industry development, which work against entrants who lack the funding and resources to enter the market. [ 8 ] However, critics also point out that entry barriers can reduce the efficiency of R&D because firms have no incentive to efficiently invest in innovation. [ 13 ]
Customer loyalty – Large incumbent firms may have existing customers loyal to established products. As a result, the presence of established strong brands within a market can be a barrier to entry.
Control of resources – If a single firm has control of a resource essential for a certain industry, then other firms may be unable to compete in the industry.
Inelastic demand – One strategy to penetrate a market is to sell at a lower price than the incumbents. This, however, is ineffective with price-insensitive consumers.
Predatory pricing – Predatory pricing is the practice of selling at a loss to make competition more difficult for new firms that cannot bear such losses as easily as a large dominant firm with large lines of credit or cash reserves. Illegal in most places, predatory pricing, however, is difficult to prove. See antitrust . In the context of international trade, such practices are often called dumping .
Occupational licensing – Examples include educational , licensing , and quota limits on the number of people who can enter a certain profession.
Product differentiation of incumbents - Incumbent firms show advantages in advertising , brands , customer loyalties or product differentiation which can enable them to be first in the market. [ 8 ]
Number of competitors - During a period when the number of companies is increasing, the possibility of market entry is higher, Conversely, the likelihood of market entry is less during a period defined by a large number of business failures. [ 8 ]
Price - Intensive price competition can hinder entrants, who may be unable to set their prices as low as incumbents. As a result, industries with high barriers to entry often contain a monopoly or oligopoly with dominant power in terms of price. This dominance allows them to charge a higher price or, if other firms join the market, to use their market power and cash flow to lower prices, beating out the new competition. [ 8 ]
Technology and technological change - Technological change, often seen in high technology sectors, can have a tremendous impact on economies of scale. [ 8 ]
Market concentration - Market concentration, though it usually has only a minor effect, can still work against new entrants. [ 8 ]
Seller concentration - Seller concentration can have a major effect on new entrants, making it difficult for them to enter the market, contributing further to seller concentration. [ 8 ]
Divisionalization - Typically in highly profitable oligopolistic industries , it is cheaper for an incumbent to establish a new department than it would be for new entrants. [ 8 ]
Selling expenses - A change in demand function may be endogenous to market entry due to sales efforts. [ 8 ]
Incumbent's expected reaction to market entry - If incumbent firms expect new entrants to represent a threat, and are capable of preventing market entry, they may take action to prevent new entrants from competing. [ 8 ]
Possession of strategic raw materials - An ability to access strategic raw materials provides advantages for the accessing companies, such as an absolute cost advantage. [ 8 ]
Classification and examples
[ edit ]
Michael Porter classifies the markets into four general cases [ citation needed ] :
High barrier to entry and high exit barrier (for example, telecommunications , energy )
High barrier to entry and low exit barrier (for example, consulting , education )
Low barrier to entry and high exit barrier (for example, hotels , ironworks )
Low barrier to entry and low exit barrier (for example, retail , electronic commerce )
These markets combine the attributes:
Markets with high entry barriers have few players and thus high profit margins .
Markets with low entry barriers have many players and thus low profit margins.
Markets with high exit barriers are unstable and not self-regulated, so the profit margins fluctuate very much over time.
Markets with a low exit barrier are stable and self-regulated, so the profit margins do not fluctuate much over time.
The higher the barriers to entry and exit, the more prone a market tends to be a natural monopoly . The reverse is also true. The lower the barriers, the more likely the market will become perfect competition .
Market structure
[ edit ]
A structural barrier to entry is a cost incurred by new entrants to a market that is caused by inherent industry conditions, such as upfront capital investment, economies of scale and network effects. [ 2 ] For example, the cost to develop a factory and obtain the initial capital required for manufacturing can be seen as a structural barrier to entry.
A strategic barrier to entry is a cost incurred by new entrants that is artificially created or enhanced by existing firms. [ 2 ] This could take the form of exclusive contracts, whether supply or demand-side, or through price manipulation in non-competitive markets.
A market with perfect competition features zero barriers to entry. [ 14 ] Under perfect competition firms are unable to control prices, and produce similar or identical goods. [ 15 ] This means that firms cannot operate strategic barriers to entry.
Perfect competition implies no economies of scale ; [ 15 ] this means that structural barriers to entry are also not possible under perfect competition.
Monopolistic competition can allow for medium barriers to entry. Because the enterprises can earn their short-term revenue through innovation and marketing new products to push the price higher than average costs and marginal costs, barriers to entry can be made higher. [ 16 ] However, due to the low cost of the information in monopolistic competition, the barrier of entry is lower than in oligopolies or monopolies as new entrants come. [ 17 ]
An Oligopoly will typically see high barriers to entry, due to the size of the existing enterprises and the competitive advantages gained from that size. These competitive advantages could arise from economies of scale, but are also commonly associated with the excess capacity of capital held by incumbent firms, [ 18 ] which allows them to engage in temporarily loss-inducing behaviour to force any potential competitor out of the market. [ 19 ]
The distinguishing characteristic of a duopoly is a market featuring solely two firms. Competition in a duopoly can vary due to what is being set in the market: price or quantity (see Cournot competition and Bertrand competition ). It is generally agreed that a duopoly will feature higher barriers to entry than an oligopoly, as firms within a duopoly have a greater potential for absolute advantage with respect to demand. [ 20 ]
A market with a monopolistic firm will often have very high to absolute barriers to entry. The incumbent firm can obtain tremendous profits through a pure monopoly market, therefore there are very large incentives for the creation of strategic barriers, as they want to continue to earn excess profits in the short and long term. [ 21 ] These barriers can take several forms, including cost advantage, advertising , and strategic reaction in the form of temporary deviation from equilibrium behaviour. [ 21 ]
Barriers to entry in non-economic areas
[ edit ]
For political parties the electoral threshold is a barrier to entry to the political competition. [ 22 ] One dataset with barriers to entry to the political competition by country is the "Barriers to parties" indicator in V-Dem Democracy indices . [ 23 ]
See also
[ edit ]
Anti-competitive practices
Asset poverty
Barriers to exit
Brand awareness
Exclusive dealing
Information asymmetry
Overchoice
Starting a Business Index
Strategic entry deterrence
Vendor lock-in
Zero-profit condition
References
[ edit ]
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 McAfee, R. Preston; Mialon, Hugo M.; Williams, Michael A. (May 2004). "What Is a Barrier to Entry?" (PDF) . American Economic Review . 94 (2): 461– 465. doi : 10.1257/0002828041302235 . Retrieved January 24, 2023 – via California Institute of Technology .
1 2 3 West, Jeremy (January 2007). Competition and Barriers to Entry (PDF) (Technical report). Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development . Retrieved January 24, 2023 .
↑ Lazaroff, Daniel E. (December 2006). "Entry Barriers and Contemporary Antitrust Litigation" . UC Davis Business Law Journal . 7 (1). Archived from the original on March 29, 2016 . Retrieved January 24, 2023 .
↑ Wheelen, Thomas L.; Hunger, J. David (2011). Strategic Management and Business Policy (PDF) . Pearson Education. p.   111 . Retrieved 21 April 2023 .
↑ Shy, Oz; Stenbacka, Rune (December 2005). Entry Barriers and Antitrust Objectives (PDF) (Technical report) . Retrieved January 24, 2023 – via ozshy.com.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Porter, Michael E. (January 2008). "The Five Competitive Forces That Shape Strategy" . Harvard Business Review . 86 (1): 78– 137. PMID   18271320 . Retrieved January 24, 2023 .
↑ Porter, Michael E. (March–April 1979). "How Competitive Forces Shape Strategy" . Harvard Business Review . 57 (2): 137– 145 . Retrieved January 24, 2023 .
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Karakaya, Fahri; Stahl, Michael J. (April 1989). "Barriers to Entry and Market Entry Decisions in Consumer and Industrial Goods Markets" . Journal of Marketing . 53 (2). Sage Publications : 80– 91. doi : 10.2307/1251415 . JSTOR   1251415 . Retrieved 2020-10-31 .
↑ Baker, Matthew C.; Stratmann, Thomas (October 2021). "Barriers to entry in the healthcare markets: Winners and Losers from certificate-of-need laws". Socio-Economic Planning Sciences . 77 101007. doi : 10.1016/j.seps.2020.101007 . ISSN   0038-0121 .
↑ Snider, Connan; Williams, Jonathan W. (2015-12-01). "Barriers to Entry in the Airline Industry: A Multidimensional Regression-Discontinuity Analysis of AIR-21". The Review of Economics and Statistics . 97 (5): 1002– 1022. doi : 10.1162/REST_a_00455 . ISSN   0034-6535 . S2CID   57571664 .
↑ Levinson, Arik (1999). "Grandfather regulations, new source bias, and state air toxics regulations" . Ecological Economics . 28 (2): 299– 311. doi : 10.1016/S0921-8009(98)00045-7 . Retrieved 2026-04-15 .
1 2 3 4 Moffatt, Mike (2005). "The Market Power Theory of Advertising" . About.com . Archived from the original on April 5, 2008 . Retrieved January 24, 2023 .
↑ Cullmann, Astrid; Schmidt-Ehmcke, Jens; Zloczysti, Petra (January 2012). "R&D efficiency and barriers to entry: a two stage semi-parametric DEA approach". Oxford Economic Papers . 64 (1): 176– 196. doi : 10.1093/oep/gpr015 . ISSN   0030-7653 .
↑ Stigler, George (February 1957). "Perfect Competition, Historically Contemplated". Journal of Political Economy . 65 : 1– 17. doi : 10.1086/257878 . S2CID   153919760 .
1 2 Curtis, Doug; Irvine, Ian (2020) [Originally published 2017]. Principles of Microeconomics (PDF) . Lyryx Learning . Retrieved 2022-04-20 .
↑ Boland, Michael A.; Crespi, John M.; Silva, Jena; Xia, Tian (April 2012). "Measuring the Benefits to Advertising under Monopolistic Competition" . Journal of Agricultural and Resource Economics . 37 (1): 144– 155. doi : 10.22004/ag.econ.122308 .
↑ Todorova, Tamara (2021). "Some Efficiency Aspects of Monopolistic Competition: Innovation, Variety and Transaction Costs" (PDF) . Theoretical and Practical Research in Economic Fields . 12 (24). ASERS Publishing: 82– 88. doi : 10.14505/tpref.v12.2(24).02 . S2CID   157645529 . Retrieved January 24, 2023 .
↑ Lieberman, Marvin (June 1987). "Excess Capacity as a Barrier to Entry: An Empirical Appraisal". The Empirical Renaissance in Industrial Economics . 35 (4). Wiley : 607– 627. doi : 10.2307/2098590 . JSTOR   2098590 .
↑ Ayres, Ian (March 1987). "How Cartels Punish: A Structural Theory of Self-Enforcing Collusion" . Columbia Law Review . 87 (2): 295– 325. doi : 10.2307/1122562 . JSTOR   1122562 .
↑ Dixit, Avinash (Spring 1979). "A Model of Duopoly Suggesting a Theory of Entry Barriers" . The Bell Journal of Economics . 10 (1): 20– 32. doi : 10.2307/3003317 . JSTOR   3003317 .
1 2 Dilek, Serkan; Top, Seyfi (October 2012). "Is Setting up Barriers to Entry Always Profitable for Incumbent Firms?" . Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences . 8th International Strategic Management Conference. 58 . Elsevier : 774– 782. doi : 10.1016/j.sbspro.2012.09.1055 . ISSN   1877-0428 .
↑ Tullock, Gordon. "Entry barriers in politics." The American Economic Review 55.1/2 (1965): 458-466.
↑ Sigman, Rachel, and Staffan I. Lindberg. "Neopatrimonialism and democracy: An empirical investigation of Africa's political regimes." V-Dem Working Paper 56 (2017).
v
t
e
Employment
Classifications
Academic tenure
Casual
Contingent work
Full-time job
Gig worker
Job sharing
Part-time job
Self-employment
Side job
Skilled worker
Journeyman
Technician
Tradesperson
Independent contractor
Labour hire
Temporary work
Laborer
Wage labour
Hiring
Application
Background check
Business networking
Cover letter
Curriculum vitae
Drug testing
Employment contract
Employment counsellor
Executive search
list
Induction programme
Job fair
Job fraud
Job hunting
Job interview
Letter of recommendation
Onboarding
Overqualification
Person–environment fit
Personality–job fit theory
Personality hire
Probation
Realistic job preview
Recruitment
Résumé
Simultaneous recruiting of new graduates
Underemployment
Work-at-home scheme
Roles
Cooperative
Employee
Employer
Internship
Job
Labour hire
Permanent employment
Supervisor
Volunteering
Working class
Blue-collar
Green-collar
Grey-collar
Pink-collar
Precariat
White-collar
Red-collar
New-collar
No-collar
Orange-collar
Scarlet-collar
Black-collar
Gold-collar
Career and training
Apprenticeship
Artisan
Master craftsman
Avocation
Career assessment
Career counseling
Career development
Coaching
Creative class
Education
Continuing education
E-learning
Employability
Further education
Graduate school
Induction training
Knowledge worker
Licensure
Lifelong learning
Overspecialization
Practice-based professional learning
Professional association
Professional certification
Professional development
Professional school
Reflective practice
Retraining
Vocational education
Vocational school
Vocational university
Mentorship
Occupational Outlook Handbook
Practice firm
Profession
Operator
Professional
Tradesman
Vocation
Attendance
Break
Break room
Career break
Coffee badging
Compassionate leave
Bereavement leave
Furlough
Gap year
Leave of absence
Long service leave
No call, no show
Sabbatical
Sick guilt
Sick leave
Stress leave
Tardiness
Time clock
Schedules
Four-day week
Eight-hour day
35-hour workweek
996 working hour system
Flextime
Hybrid creep
On-call
Overtime
Remote work
Return to office (RTO)
Six-hour day
Shift work
Working time
Workweek and weekend
Wages and salaries
Decoupling of wages from productivity
Frisch elasticity of labor supply
Global labor arbitrage
Labour economics
Labor share
Labour supply
Living wage
Maximum wage
Median income
Minimum wage
Canada
Hong Kong
Europe
United States
National average salary
World
Europe
Pay bands
Price elasticity of demand
Progressive wage
Singapore
Overtime rate
Paid time off
Performance-related pay
Remuneration
Salary cap
Wage growth
Benefits
Annual leave
Casual Friday
Child care
Disability insurance
Health insurance
Life insurance
Marriage leave
Parental leave
Pension
By country
Perk-cession
Sick leave
United States
Take-home vehicle
Well-being washing
Taxes
Payroll tax
Tax bracket
Income tax
Negative
Disposable income
Salary packaging
Unreported employment
Safety and health
Crunch
Epilepsy and employment
Human factors and ergonomics
Karoshi
List of countries by rate of fatal workplace accidents
Occupational burnout
Occupational disease
Occupational exposure limit
Occupational health psychology
Occupational injury
Occupational noise
Occupational stress
Personal protective equipment
Repetitive strain injury
Right to sit
United States
Sick building syndrome
Work accident
Occupational fatality
Workers' compensation
Workers' right to access the toilet
Workplace health promotion
Workplace phobia
Workplace wellness
Equal opportunity
Affirmative action
Discrimination
Equal pay for equal work
Gender pay gap
Glass ceiling
Infractions
Corporate collapses and scandals
Accounting scandal
Control fraud
Corporate behaviour
Corporate crime
Exploitation of labour
Dress code
Employee handbook
Employee monitoring
Evaluation
Labour law
Sexual harassment
Sleeping while on duty
Wage theft
Whistleblower
Workplace bullying
Workplace harassment
Workplace incivility
Willingness
Boreout
Careerism
Civil conscription
Conscription
Critique of work
Dead-end job
Employment rate
List
Job satisfaction
McJob
Organizational commitment
Refusal of work
Slavery
Bonded labour
Human trafficking
Labour camp
Penal labour
Peonage
Truck wages
Unfree labour
Wage slavery
Stay interview
Workforce
Work ethic
Work–life interface
Downshifting
Slow living
Workaholic
Termination
At-will employment
Dismissal
Banishment room
Constructive dismissal
Wrongful dismissal
Employee offboarding
Employee turnover
Exit interview
Labour market flexibility
Layoff
Xiagang
Notice period
Pink slip
Resignation
Letter of resignation
Restructuring
Retirement
Mandatory retirement
Retirement planning
Retirement spend-down
Severance package
Golden handshake
Golden parachute
Unemployment
Barriers to entry
Discouraged worker
Economic depression
Great Depression
Long Depression
Frictional unemployment
Full employment
Graduate unemployment
Involuntary unemployment
Jobless recovery
NEET
Phillips curve
Recession
Great Recession
Job losses caused by the Great Recession
Lists of recessions
Recession-proof job
Reserve army of labour
Structural unemployment
Technological unemployment
Types of unemployment
Unemployment benefits
Unemployment Convention, 1919
Unemployment extension
List of countries by unemployment rate
Wage curve
Youth unemployment
Public programs
Workfare
Unemployment insurance
Make-work job
Job creation program
Job creation index
Job guarantee
Employer of last resort
Guaranteed minimum income
Right to work
Historical:
U.S.A.:
Civil Works Administration
Works Progress Administration
Comprehensive Employment and Training Act
See also
Bullshit job
Busy work
Credentialism and educational inflation
Emotional labor
Evil corporation
Going postal
Kiss up kick down
Labor rights
Make-work job
Narcissism in the workplace
Post-work society
Presenteeism
Psychopathy in the workplace
Sunday scaries
Slow movement (culture)
Toxic leader
Toxic workplace
Wage compression
Working poor
Workhouse
See also templates
Aspects of corporations
Aspects of jobs
Aspects of occupations
Aspects of organizations
Aspects of workplaces
Corporate titles
Critique of work
Organized labor
v
t
e
Institutional economics
Institutional economists
Werner Abelshauser
Clarence Edwin Ayres
Joe S. Bain
Shimshon Bichler
Robert A. Brady
Daniel Bromley
Ha-Joon Chang
John Maurice Clark
John R. Commons
Richard T. Ely
Robert H. Frank
John Kenneth Galbraith
Walton Hale Hamilton
Orris C. Herfindahl
Albert O. Hirschman
Geoffrey Hodgson
János Kornai
Simon Kuznets
Hunter Lewis
Jesse W. Markham
Wesley Clair Mitchell
Gunnar Myrdal
Jonathan Nitzan
Warren Samuels
François Simiand
Herbert A. Simon
Frank Stilwell
George W. Stocking Sr.
Lars Pålsson Syll
Thorstein Veblen
Edward Lawrence Wheelwright
Erich Zimmermann
New institutional economists
Daron Acemoglu
Armen Alchian
Masahiko Aoki
Steven N. S. Cheung
Ronald Coase
Harold Demsetz
Avner Greif
Claude Ménard
Douglass North
Mancur Olson
Elinor Ostrom ( Bloomington school )
Oliver E. Williamson
Behavioral economists
George Ainslie
Dan Ariely
Nava Ashraf
Ofer Azar
Douglas Bernheim
Samuel Bowles
Sarah Brosnan
Colin Camerer
David Cesarini
Kay-Yut Chen
Rachel Croson
Werner De Bondt
Paul Dolan
Stephen Duneier
Catherine C. Eckel
Armin Falk
Urs Fischbacher
Herbert Gintis
Uri Gneezy
David Halpern
Charles A. Holt
David Ryan Just
Daniel Kahneman
Djuradj Caranovic
Ariel Kalil
George Katona
Jeffrey R. Kling
George Loewenstein
Graham Loomes
Brigitte C. Madrian
Gary McClelland
Matteo Motterlini
Sendhil Mullainathan
Michael Norton
Matthew Rabin
Howard Rachlin
Klaus M. Schmidt
Eldar Shafir
Hersh Shefrin
Robert J. Shiller
Uwe Sunde
Richard Thaler
Amos Tversky
Robert W. Vishny
Georg Weizsäcker
Economic sociologists
Jens Beckert
Fred L. Block
James S. Coleman
Paul DiMaggio
Paula England
Mark Granovetter
Donald Angus MacKenzie
Joel M. Podolny
Lynette Spillman
Richard Swedberg
Laurent Thévenot
Carlo Trigilia
Harrison White
Viviana Zelizer
Key concepts and ideas
Accelerator effect
Administered prices
Barriers to entry
Bounded rationality
Conspicuous consumption
Conspicuous leisure
Conventional wisdom
Countervailing power
Effective competition
Herfindahl index
Hiding hand principle
Hirschman cycle
Instrumentalism
Kuznets cycles
Market concentration
Market power
Market structure
Penalty of taking the lead
Satisficing
Shortage economy
Structure–conduct–performance paradigm
Technostructure
Theory of two-level planning
Veblen goods
Veblenian dichotomy
Related fields
Cultural economics
Development economics
English historical school of economics
Evolutionary economics
Evolutionary psychology
French historical school
Historical school of economics
Legal realism
Microeconomics
Post-Keynesian economics
Category
Commons
Authority control databases
International GND
National Barriers to entry (Industrial organization) "}]]}'> United States
Israel
Other Yale LUX
Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Barriers_to_entry&oldid=1371208276 "
<div
[FOOTER] Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.