Global marketing - Wikipedia
id="mw-content-text" class="mw-body-content"> Marketing on a worldwide scale
This article needs more citations . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Find sources:   "Global marketing"   –   news   · newspapers   · books   · scholar   · JSTOR ( November 2025 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message )
Marketing
Key concepts
Account-based marketing
Activation
Annoyance factor
Attribution
Distribution
Brand licensing
Brand management
Cannibalization
Co-creation
Communications
Consumer behaviour
Consumer culture
Digital marketing
Dominance
Effectiveness
Ethics
Horizontal integration
Influencer marketing
Management
Mix
Pricing
Product marketing
Promotion
Retail
S-T-P
Segmentation
Targeting
Positioning
Service
Social marketing
Strategy
Vertical integration
Promotional content
Advertising
Ambush marketing
Branding
Corporate anniversary
Direct marketing
Franchising
Gender in advertising
Label
Loyalty marketing
Mobile marketing
On-hold messaging
Personal selling
Premiums
Prizes
Product placement
Propaganda
Publicity
Sales promotion
Sex in advertising
Underwriting spot
Promotional media
Behavioral targeting
Brand ambassador
Counter display unit
Display advertising
Display stand
Drip marketing
Endcap
Gondola
In-game advertising
Mobile advertising
Native advertising
New media
Online advertising
Out-of-home advertising
Point of sale
Product demonstration
Promotional merchandise
Merchandising
Promotional representative
Visual merchandising
Web banner
Word-of-mouth
Research
Market research
Marketing research
Mystery shopping
Consumer research
v
t
e
Global marketing is defined as " marketing on a worldwide scale reconciling or taking global operational differences, similarities and opportunities to reach global objectives". [ 1 ] [ 2 ]
Global marketing is also a field of study in general business management that markets products, solutions, and services to customers locally, nationally, and internationally. [ 3 ] [ 4 ]
International marketing is the application of marketing principles in more than one country, by companies overseas or across national borders. [ 5 ] It is done through the export of a company's product into another location or entry through a joint venture with another firm within the country, or foreign direct investment into the country. International marketing is required for the development of the marketing mix for the country. [ citation needed ] International marketing includes the use of existing marketing strategies , mix and tools for export, relationship strategies such as localization, local product offerings, pricing, production and distribution with customized promotions, offers, website, social media and leadership.
Internationalization and international marketing is when the value of the company is "exported and there is inter-firm and firm learning, optimization , and efficiency in economies of scale and scope" . [ 6 ]
Evolution
The international marketplace was transformed by shifts in trading techniques, standards, and practices. These changes were reinforced and sustained by advanced technologies and evolving economic relationships among the companies and organizations involved in international trade. The traditional ethnocentric conceptual view of international marketing trade was counterbalanced by a global view of markets.
Domestic marketing
[ edit ]
Domestic marketing consists of the marketing strategies used by a company to allow customers to purchase a product or service within a local market [ 7 ]
Domestic marketing leads to familiarity with the extent of political risk, the quality of skilled human resources and natural resources , and the ramifications of existing and likely legislation in relevant areas such as safety, hygiene, employment, and ownership of capital . [ 8 ]
These markets are restrained by the laws and regulations of the country. Domestic marketing is typically organized at the headquarters.
Global marketing
[ edit ]
Global marketing relies on firms that understand the requirements associated with servicing customers locally using globally standardized solutions or products, and localize those products to maintain an optimal balance of cost, efficiency, customization, and localization along a control-customization continuum to meet local, national, and global requirements.
Global marketing and global branding are integrated. Branding is a structured process of analyzing "soft" assets and "hard" assets of a firm's resources. The strategic analysis and development of a brand includes customer analysis (trends, motivation, unmet needs, segmentation), competitive analysis ( brand image / brand identity , strengths, strategies, vulnerabilities), and self-analysis (existing brand image, brand heritage, strengths/capabilities, organizational values). [ 9 ]
Elements
[ edit ]
Product
[ edit ]
A minimum level of performance is placed onto each product.
Price
[ edit ]
The price of a product varies based on production cost, target segment, and supply-demand dynamics alongside several types of pricing strategies, each tied in with an overall business plan. Pricing is also used as a demarcation to differentiate the image of a product.
The price varies from market to market.
Place
[ edit ]
The place refers to the point of sale.
The distribution of products is reliant on the competition offered to the market. Coca-Cola does not implement vending machines in all cultures. Beverages are sold by the pallet via warehouse stores in the United States while it is not seen in India. Placement decisions are reliant on the position of the product in the marketplace. For example, a high-end product would not be distributed via a dollar store in the United States. Conversely, a product promoted as the low-cost option in France would give rise to limited success in a high end area.
Promotion
[ edit ]
Advertising, word of mouth, press reports, incentives, commissions, and awards to the trade will account for product acknowledgement. It may also include consumer schemes, direct marketing, contests, and prizes.
People
[ edit ]
People may be considered to be a firm's most valuable asset. Core values of firms such as integrity, honesty, leadership, social responsibility, drive for profit, and drive for quality products and services are reasons behind customer loyalty.
Processes
[ edit ]
Processes for creating and delivering products and services are intangible assets that improves the quality of the products and services.
Physical Evidence
[ edit ]
The Digital economy today enables firms to provide non-physical services over the internet and companies' products such as Software-as-a-Service (Saas). Historically, banks with retail locations signal the financial strength of their institutions. Retail locations for consumer brands add onto the evidence of the popularity and reach of their brands.
There are trust requirements before a customer makes a purchase from a company, as such, companies without brick and mortar must provide existential proof of their legitimate software company.
Advantages
[ edit ]
Global marketing may lead to:
Economies of scale in production and distribution
Lower marketing costs
Power and scope
Consistency in brand image
Ability to leverage ideas quickly and efficiently
Uniformity of marketing practices
Helps to establish relationships outside of the 'political arena'
Helps to encourage ancillary industries to be set up to cater to the needs of the global player
Benefits of eMarketing over traditional marketing
Disadvantages
[ edit ]
Global marketing may also lead to:
Differences in consumer needs , wants , and usage patterns for products
Differences in consumer response to marketing mix elements
Differences in brand and product development and the competitive environment
Differences in the legal environment, some of which may conflict with those of the home market
Differences in the institutions available, some of which may call for the creation of entirely new ones (e.g. infrastructure)
Differences in administrative procedures
Differences in product placement
Differences in the administrative procedures and product placement can occur
Differences in cultural norms can lead to miscommunication or brand misinterpretation
See also
[ edit ]
Advertising
Advertising research
Globalization
International marketing
Marketing
Marketing research
Nation branding
wikt:Picture Sorts
Visual marketing
References
[ edit ]
↑ A Dictionary of Marketing . Oxford University Press. 24 March 2011. ISBN   978-0-19-959023-0 . Retrieved 4 October 2017 .
↑ "International Marketing vs Global Marketing (10 Differences)" . eduCBA . 16 September 2016 . Retrieved 4 October 2017 .
↑ Johansson, Johny K. (2010). "Global Marketing Strategy" . Wiley International Encyclopedia of Marketing . Wiley International Encyclopedia of Marketing Online. doi : 10.1002/9781444316568.wiem01024 . ISBN   9781405161787 .
↑ Bryan, Jesse. "Digital Marketing on Instagram" . Eurweb.com . Retrieved 19 October 2023 .
↑ "International Marketing" . marketing-schools.org . 2012. Archived from the original on 14 May 2019 . Retrieved 30 October 2020 .
↑ "International Marketing | Fastweb" . www.fastweb.com . Retrieved 2 April 2021 .
↑ "},"date":{"wt":"2020-02-24"},"website":{"wt":"termscompared.com"},"publisher":{"wt":"Terms Compared"},"access-date":{"wt":"2020-10-30"}},"i":0}}]}'/> "Domestic marketing vs international marketing" . termscompared.com . Terms Compared. 24 February 2020 . Retrieved 30 October 2020 .
↑ Paliwoda & Thomas, Stanley J. & Michael J. (1998). International Marketing . London, England: The Chartered Institute of Marketing. p.   13. ISBN   978-1-135-38710-5 .
↑ Building Strong Brands, David Aaker, E.T. Grether Professor of Marketing Strategy at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley
Further reading
[ edit ]
Hollensen, Svend (2020) Global Marketing , 8th edition, Pearson, ISBN   978-1-292-25180-6 .
Svante Andersson & Göran Svensson (editors) (2009) Global Marketing: think globally and act locally , Lund: Studentlitteratur , ISBN   978-91-44-05555-8 .
Syed H. Akhter. Global Marketing: Concepts, Strategies, Practice. ISBN   978-0-538-83176-5
Kotabe, Masaki and Helsen, Kristiaan (2004) Global Marketing Management , 3rd edition, John Wiley & Sons , ISBN   0-471-23062-6 .
Philip Kotler & Keller (2005) Marketing Management , 12th edition, ISBN   81-203-2799-3
Young, Charles E. (April 2005) Advertising Research Handbook , Ideas in Flight, Seattle, ISBN   0-9765574-0-1 .
External links
[ edit ]
Media related to Global marketing at Wikimedia Commons
Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Global_marketing&oldid=1346874313 "
<div
[FOOTER] Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.