Marketing management - Wikipedia
id="mw-content-text" class="mw-body-content"> Practical application of marketing in organizations
This article needs more citations . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed .
Find sources:   "Marketing management"   –   news   · newspapers   · books   · scholar   · JSTOR ( December 2021 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message )
Marketing
Key concepts
Account-based marketing
Activation
Annoyance factor
Attribution
Distribution
Brand licensing
Brand management
Cannibalization
Co-creation
Communications
Consumer behaviour
Consumer culture
Digital marketing
Dominance
Effectiveness
Ethics
Horizontal integration
Influencer marketing
Management
Mix
Pricing
Product marketing
Promotion
Retail
S-T-P
Segmentation
Targeting
Positioning
Service
Social marketing
Strategy
Vertical integration
Promotional content
Advertising
Ambush marketing
Branding
Corporate anniversary
Direct marketing
Franchising
Gender in advertising
Label
Loyalty marketing
Mobile marketing
On-hold messaging
Personal selling
Premiums
Prizes
Product placement
Propaganda
Publicity
Sales promotion
Sex in advertising
Underwriting spot
Promotional media
Behavioral targeting
Brand ambassador
Counter display unit
Display advertising
Display stand
Drip marketing
Endcap
Gondola
In-game advertising
Mobile advertising
Native advertising
New media
Online advertising
Out-of-home advertising
Point of sale
Product demonstration
Promotional merchandise
Merchandising
Promotional representative
Visual merchandising
Web banner
Word-of-mouth
Research
Market research
Marketing research
Mystery shopping
Consumer research
v
t
e
Business administration
Accounting
Management accounting
Financial accounting
Audit
Business entity ( list )
Corporate group
Corporation sole
Company
Conglomerate
Holding company
Cooperative
Corporation
Joint-stock company
Limited liability company
Partnership
Privately held company
Sole proprietorship
State-owned enterprise
Corporate governance
Annual general meeting
Board of directors
Supervisory board
Advisory board
Audit committee
Corporate law
Commercial law
Constitutional documents
Contract
Corporate crime
Corporate liability
Insolvency law
International trade law
Mergers and acquisitions
Corporate title
Chairman
Chief business officer / Chief brand officer
Chief executive officer / Chief operating officer
Chief financial officer
Chief human resources officer
Chief information officer / Chief marketing officer
Chief product officer / Chief technology officer
Economics
Commodity
Public economics
Labour economics
Development economics
International economics
Mixed economy
Planned economy
Econometrics
Environmental economics
Open economy
Market economy
Knowledge economy
Microeconomics
Macroeconomics
Economic development
Economic statistics
Finance
Financial statement
Insurance
Factoring
Cash conversion cycle
Insider dealing
Capital budgeting
Commercial bank
Derivative
Financial statement analysis
Financial risk
Public finance
Corporate finance
Managerial finance
International finance
Liquidation
Stock market
Financial market
Tax
Financial institution
Capital management
Venture capital
Types of management
Asset
Brand
Business intelligence
Business development
Capacity
Capability
Change
innovation
Commercial
Marketing
Communications
Configuration
Conflict
Content
Customer relationship
Distributed
Earned value
Electronic business
Enterprise resource planning  
management information system
Financial
Human resource  
development
Incident
Knowledge
Legal
Materials
Network
administrator
Office
Operations  
services
Performance
Power
Process
Product life-cycle
Product
Project
Property
Quality
Records
Resource
Risk  
crisis
Sales
Security
Service
Strategic
Supply chain
Systems
administrator
Talent
Technology
Organization
Architecture
Behavior
Communication
Culture
Conflict
Development
Engineering
Hierarchy
Patterns
Space
Structure
Trade
Business analysis
Business ethics
Business plan
Business judgment rule
Consumer behaviour
International business
Business model
International trade
Trade route
Business process
Business statistics
Business portal
v
t
e
Marketing management is the strategic organizational discipline that focuses on the practical application of marketing orientation, techniques and methods inside enterprises and organizations and on the management of marketing resources and activities. [ citation needed ] [ 1 ] [ 2 ] [ 3 ]
Compare marketology , [ 4 ]
which Aghazadeh defines in terms of "recognizing, generating and disseminating market insight to ensure better market-related decisions". [ 5 ]
Structure
[ edit ]
Marketing management employs tools from economics and competitive strategy to analyze the industry context in which the firm operates. These include Porter's five forces , analysis of strategic groups of competitors, value chain analysis and others. [ 6 ]
In competitor analysis, marketers build detailed profiles of each competitor in the market, focusing on their relative competitive strengths and weaknesses using SWOT analysis . Marketing managers will examine each competitor's cost structure, sources of profits, resources and competencies, competitive positioning and product differentiation , degree of vertical integration , historical responses to industry developments, and other factors.
Marketing management often implies market research and marketing research to perform a primary analysis. For this, a variety of techniques are implemented. Some of the most common ones include:
Qualitative marketing research , such as focus groups and various types of interviews
Quantitative marketing research , such as statistical surveys
Experimental techniques such as test markets
Observational techniques such as ethnographic (on-site) observation
Marketing managers may also design and oversee various environmental scanning and competitive intelligence processes to identify trends and inform the company's marketing analysis .
Example of SWOT analysis chart
Brand audit
[ edit ]
A brand audit is a thorough examination of a brand's current position in an industry compared to its competitors and the examination of its effectiveness. When it comes to brand auditing, six questions should be carefully examined and assessed:
How well the business's current brand strategy is working?
What are the company's established resource strengths and weaknesses?
What are its external opportunities and threats?
How competitive are the business' prices and costs?
How strong is the business's competitive position in comparison to its competitors?
What strategic issues are affecting the business?
When a business conducts a brand audit, the goal is to identify its resource strengths, weaknesses, assess market opportunities and external threats, future profitability, and its competitive standing in comparison to existing competitors. A brand audit establishes the strategic elements needed to improve the brand's positioning and competitive capabilities within the industry. Once a brand is audited, any business that ends up with strong financial performance and market position is likely to have a properly conceived and effectively executed brand strategy.
A brand audit examines whether a business's market share is increasing, decreasing, or remaining stable. It determines whether the company's profit margin is improving or declining and how it compares with that of established competitors. Additionally, a brand audit analyzes trends in net profits, return on investments, and overall economic value. It also evaluates whether the business's financial strength and credit rating are improving or deteriorating. Beyond financial metrics, a brand audit also assesses the business's image and reputation among its customers. It examines whether the business is perceived as an industry leader in areas such as technology, product or service innovation, and customer service. These factors play a significant role in shaping customer decisions and overall brand perception.
A brand audit usually focuses on a business' strengths and resource capabilities because these are the elements that enhance its competitiveness. A business' competitive strengths can exist in several forms including skilled or pertinent expertise, valuable physical and human assets, organizational assets and intangible assets, competitive capabilities, achievements and alliances or cooperative ventures that position the business into a competitive advantage.
The purpose of a brand audit is to determine whether a business’ resource strengths are competitive assets or potential liabilities. This type of audit seeks to ensure that a business maintains a distinctive competence that allows it to build and reinforce its competitive advantage. Furthermore, a well-executed brand audit seeks to establish what a business capitalizes on best, its level of expertise, resource strengths, and strongest competitive capabilities, while aiming to identify a business's current position and potential future performance.
Marketing strategy
[ edit ]
Main article: Marketing strategy
Two customer segments are often selected as targets because they score highly on two dimensions:
The segment is attractive to serve because it is large, growing, makes frequent purchases, is not price sensitive (i.e. is willing to pay high prices), or other factors; and
The company has the resources and capabilities to compete for the segment's business, can meet their needs better than the competition, and can do so profitably. [ 7 ]
A commonly cited definition of marketing is simply "meeting needs profitably". [ 8 ]
The implication of selecting target segments is that the business will subsequently allocate more resources to acquire and retain customers in the target segments than it will for other, non-targeted customers. In some cases, the firm may go so far as to turn away customers who are not in its target segment. The doorman at a swanky nightclub, for example, may deny entry to unfashionably dressed individuals because the business has made a strategic decision to target the "high fashion" segment of nightclub patrons.
In conjunction with targeting decisions, marketing managers will identify the desired positioning they want the company, product, or brand to occupy in the target customer's mind. This positioning is often an encapsulation of a key benefit the company's product or service offers that is differentiated and superior to the benefits offered by competitive products. [ 9 ] For example, Volvo has traditionally positioned its products in the automobile market in North America in order to be perceived as the leader in "safety", whereas BMW has traditionally positioned its brand to be perceived as the leader in "performance".
Ideally, a firm's positioning can be maintained over a long period of time because the company possesses or can develop, some form of sustainable competitive advantage . [ 10 ] The positioning should also be sufficiently relevant to the target segment such that it will drive the purchasing behavior of target customers. [ 9 ]
To sum up, the marketing branch of a company is to deal with the selling and popularity of its products among people and its customers, as the central and eventual goal of a company is customer satisfaction and the return of revenue.
Implementation planning
[ edit ]
Main article: Marketing plan
The Marketing Metrics Continuum provides a framework for how to categorize metrics from the tactical to strategic.
If the company has obtained an adequate understanding of the customer base and its own competitive position in the industry, marketing managers are able to make their own key strategic decisions and develop a marketing strategy designed to maximize the revenues and profits of the firm. The selected strategy may aim for any of a variety of specific objectives, including optimizing short-term unit margins, revenue growth, market share , long-term profitability, or other goals.
After the firm's strategic objectives have been identified, the target market selected, and the desired positioning for the company, product, or brand has been determined, marketing managers focus on how to best implement the chosen strategy. Traditionally, this has involved implementation planning across the "4 Ps": product management , pricing (at what price slot does a producer position a product, e.g. low, medium, or high price), place (the place or area where the products are going to be sold, which could be local, regional, countrywide or international) (i.e. sales and distribution channels), and promotion.
Taken together, the company's implementation choices across the 4 P's are often described as the marketing mix , meaning the mix of elements the business will employ to " go to market " and execute the marketing strategy. The overall goal for the marketing mix is to consistently deliver a compelling value proposition that reinforces the firm's chosen positioning, builds customer loyalty and brand equity among target customers, and achieves the firm's marketing and financial objectives.
In many cases, marketing management will develop a marketing plan to specify how the company will execute the chosen strategy and achieve the business's objectives. The content of marketing plans varies for each firm, but commonly includes:
An executive summary
Situation analysis to summarize facts and insights gained from market research and marketing analysis
The company's mission statement or long-term strategic vision
A statement of the company's key objectives often subdivided into marketing objectives and financial objectives
The marketing strategy the business has chosen, specifying the target segments to be pursued and the competitive positioning to be achieved
Implementation choices for each element of the marketing mix (the 4 Ps)
Project, process, and vendor management
[ edit ]
More broadly, marketing managers work to design and improve the effectiveness of core marketing processes , such as new product development , brand management , marketing communications , and pricing. Marketers may employ the tools of business process re-engineering to ensure these processes are properly designed, and use a variety of process management techniques to keep them operating smoothly.
Effective execution may require management of both internal resources and a variety of external vendors and service providers, such as the firm's advertising agency . Marketers may therefore coordinate with the company's purchasing department on the procurement of these services. Under the area of marketing agency management (i.e. working with external marketing agencies and suppliers) are techniques such as agency performance evaluation, scope of work, incentive compensation, ERFx 's and storage of agency information in a supplier database .
Reporting, measurement, feedback and control systems
[ edit ]
Marketing management employs a variety of metrics to measure progress against objectives. It is the responsibility of marketing managers to ensure that the execution of marketing programs achieves the desired objectives and does so in a cost-efficient manner.
Marketing management therefore often makes use of various organizational control systems, such as sales forecasts , and sales force and reseller incentive programs, sales force management systems , and customer relationship management tools (CRM). Some software vendors have begun using the term customer data platform or marketing resource management to describe systems that facilitate an integrated approach for controlling marketing resources. In some cases, these efforts may be linked to various supply chain management systems, such as enterprise resource planning (ERP), material requirements planning (MRP), efficient consumer response (ECR), and inventory management systems.
International marketing management
[ edit ]
Globalization has led some firms to market beyond the borders of their home countries, making international marketing a part of those firms' marketing strategy. [ 11 ] Marketing managers are often responsible for influencing the level, timing, and composition of customer demand. In part, this is because the role of a marketing manager (or sometimes called managing marketer in small- and medium-sized enterprises) can vary significantly based on a business's size, corporate culture , and industry context.
For example, in small and medium-sized enterprises, the managing marketer may contribute to both managerial and marketing operations roles for the company brands. In a large consumer products company, the marketing manager may act as the overall general manager of his or her assigned product. [ 12 ]
To create an effective, cost-efficient marketing management strategy, firms must possess a detailed, objective understanding of their own business and the market in which they operate. [ 7 ] In analyzing these issues, the discipline of marketing management often overlaps with the related discipline of strategic planning .
See also
[ edit ]
Marketing effectiveness
Predictive analytics
Strategic management
Outline of marketing
References
[ edit ]
↑
Compare:
D.David Winster Praveenraj; B. Nandini; Bushra Tasleem (2023). "Marketing Management". Marketing Management . Bangalore: Archers & Elevators Publishing House. p.   4. ISBN   9789394958241 . Retrieved 26 July 2024 . Marketing management is defined as the process of overseeing and planning new product development, advertising, promotions and sales.
↑
Compare:
Baker, Michael John (16 September 2017). "Marketing and corporate strategy". Marketing Strategy and Management (5, revised   ed.). London: Palgrave. p.   52. ISBN   9781137342133 . Retrieved 26 July 2024 . [Philip] Kotler originally defined marketing management as 'the analysis, planning, implementation, and control of programs designed to bring about desired exchanges with target audiences for the purpose of personal or mutual gain.'
↑
Compare:
Botter, Ferna Maria Patricia (2010). "5.6: Maatschappelijke ondernemingen en marketing". Maatschappelijke ondernemingen: Naar een andere benadering van maatschappelijk ondernemen (in Dutch). Delft: Eburon Uitgeverij B.V. p.   167. ISBN   9789059724556 . Retrieved 26 July 2024 . Zo luidt de definitie van marketing management van de American Marketing Association uit 1985: 'Marketing (management) is the process of planning and executing the conception, pricing, promotion and distribution of ideas, goods and services to create exchanges that satisfy individual and services to create exchanges that satisfy individual and organizational objectives.'
↑
Hollander, Stanley C (15 October 2011) [1980]. "Let us contemplate our navels: the need for a sociology of marketers and marketologists". In Lamb, Charles W.; Dunne, Patrick M. (eds.). Theoretical Developments in Marketing (reprint   ed.). Chicago: Marketing Classics Press. p.   55. ISBN   9781613112342 . Retrieved 26 July 2024 . Marketology (and that ungainly term will help distinguish between study and practice) has and can draw substantially from sociology, anthropology and social psychology.
↑
recognizing, generating and disseminating market insight to ensure better market-related decisions for providing superior value to key stakeholders ' [...]."}},"i":0}}]}'/> Aghazadeh, Hashem (29 April 2016). "Sphere of Marketology: Spectrum, Scope, Nature, Stakeholders, Features, and Functions". Principles of Marketology . Vol.   1: Theory (reprint   ed.). Basingstoke, Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan. p.   94. doi : 10.1057/9781137379320_6 . ISBN   9781137379320 . Retrieved 26 July 2024 . The core concept of marketology involves ' recognizing, generating and disseminating market insight to ensure better market-related decisions for providing superior value to key stakeholders ' [...].
↑ Porter, Michael (1998). Competitive Strategy (revised ed.) . The Free Press . ISBN   0-684-84148-7 .
1 2 Clancy, Kevin J.; Peter C. Kriegafsd (2000). Counter intuitive Marketing . The Free Press . ISBN   0-684-85555-0 .
↑ Kotler, Philip. ; Kevin Lane Keller (2006). Marketing Management, 12th ed . Pearson Prentice Hall . ISBN   0-13-145757-8 .
1 2 Ries, Al; Jack Trout (2000). Positioning: The Battle for Your Mind (20th-anniversary ed.) . McGraw-Hill . ISBN   0-07-135916-8 .
↑ Porter, Michael (1998). Competitive Advantage (revised ed.) . The Free Press . ISBN   0-684-84146-0 .
↑ Joshi, Rakesh Mohan, (2005) International Marketing , Oxford University Press , New Delhi and New York ISBN   0-19-567123-6
↑ Kotler, P. and Keller, K.L. Marketing Management, 12th ed., Pearson, 2006, ISBN   0-13-145757-8
Further reading
[ edit ]
Lenskold, James D. (2003). The Path to Campaign, Customer, and Corporate Profitability by James D. Lenskold . McGraw-Hill Professional. ISBN   0-07-141363-4 . Retrieved 2008-11-03 .
Patterson, Laura (2008). Marketing Metrics in Action: Creating a Performance-Driven Marketing Organization . Racom Communications. ISBN   978-1-933199-15-3 .
Klein, A. S.; Masi, R. J.; Weidner II, C. K. (1995). "Organization Culture, Distribution and Amount of Control, and Perceptions of Quality: An Empirical Study of Linkages". Group & Organization Management . 20 (2). doi : 10.1177/1059601195202004 . S2CID   145719140 .
External links
[ edit ]
Marketing at Wikibooks
Quotations related to Marketing management at Wikiquote
v
t
e
Management
Outline of management
Index of management articles
By type
of organization
Academic
Educational
Association
Business
Restaurant
Court
Healthcare
Intelligence
Military
Public
Reputation
By focus,
within an
organization On scope Strategic
(top-level)
Capability
Capital
Change
Communication
Financial
Innovation
Legal
Performance
Risk
Systems
On component
Facility
Product
Product lifecycle
Brand
Project
Construction
Program
On activity or
department
managed Line
Marketing
Operations / production
Process
Quality
Sales
Staff
Accounting
Office
Records
On aspect or
relationship
Customer relationship
Engineering
Logistics
Perception
Supply chain
Talent
On problem
Conflict
Crisis
Stress
On resource
Environmental resource
Field inventory
Human resources
Information
Information technology
Knowledge
Land
Materials
Skills
Technology
Time
Positions
Interim
Middle
Senior
Methods,
approaches
Adhocracy
Collaborative method
Distributed
Earned value management
Evidence-based management
Full range leadership model
Management by objectives
Management style
Macromanagement
Micromanagement
Scientific management
Social entrepreneurship
Sustainable management
Team building
Virtual management
Skills,
activities
Decision-making
Forecasting
Leadership
Pioneers,
scholars
Peter Drucker
Eliyahu M. Goldratt
Oliver E. Williamson
Education
Business school
Certified Business Manager
Chartered Management Institute
Critical management studies
Degrees
Bachelor of Business Administration
Bachelor of Management
Master of Business Administration
Master of Management
Doctor of Business Administration
PhD in management
Other
Administration
Collaboration
Corporate governance
Executive compensation
Management consulting
Management control
Management cybernetics
Management development
Management fad
Management system
Managerial economics
Managerial psychology
Managerialism
Organization development
Organizational behavior management
Pointy-haired Boss
Systems science portal
Authority control databases
National United States
marketingový management "}]]}'> Czech Republic
Latvia
Israel
Other Yale LUX
Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Marketing_management&oldid=1342954261 "
<div
[FOOTER] Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.