Click-through rate - Wikipedia
id="mw-content-text" class="mw-body-content"> Percentage of views on a certain web page that made a desired click
For other uses, see CTR .
Part of a series on
Internet marketing
Email marketing
Referral marketing
Content marketing
Native advertising
Search engine marketing
Search engine optimization
Local search engine optimisation
Pay-per-click
Cost per impression
Search analytics
Web analytics
Social media marketing
Social media optimization
Social pull marketing
Social video marketing
Influencer marketing
Viral marketing
Marketing buzz
Display advertising
Ad blocking
Contextual advertising
Behavioral targeting
Mobile advertising
Affiliate marketing
Cost per action
Revenue sharing
Misc
Keyword density
Keyword research
PageRank
WordPress CMS
v
t
e
Click-through rate ( CTR ) is the ratio of clicks on a specific link to the number of times a page, email, or advertisement is shown. It is commonly used to measure the success of an online advertising campaign for a particular website, as well as the effectiveness of email campaigns . [ 1 ] [ 2 ]
Click-through rates for ad campaigns vary tremendously. The first online display ad , shown for AT&T on the website HotWired in 1994, had a 44% click-through rate. [ 3 ] With time, the overall rate of user's clicks on webpage banner ads has decreased.
Purpose
[ edit ]
The purpose of click-through rates is to measure the ratio of clicks to impressions of an online ad or email marketing campaign. Generally, the higher the CTR, the more effective the marketing campaign has been at bringing people to a website. Most commercial websites are designed to elicit some sort of action, whether it be to buy a book, read a news article, watch a music video, or search for a flight. People rarely visit websites with the intention of viewing advertisements, in the same way that few people watch television to view the commercials. [ 4 ]
While marketers want to know the reaction of the web visitor, with current technology it is nearly impossible to quantify the emotional reaction to the site and the effect of that site on the firm's brand. In contrast, it is easy to determine the click-through rate, which measures the proportion of visitors who clicked on an advertisement that redirected them to another page. Forms of interaction with advertisements other than clicking are possible but rare; "click-through rate" is the most commonly used term to describe the efficacy of an advert. [ 4 ]
Construction
[ edit ]
The click-through rate of an advertisement is the number of times a click is made on the ad, divided by the number of times the ad is " served ", that is, shown (also called impressions ), expressed as a percentage:
CTR
=
Number of click-throughs
Number of impressions
×
100
(
%
)
{\displaystyle {\text{CTR}}={{\text{Number of click-throughs}} \over {\text{Number of impressions}}}\times 100(\%)}
Online advertising
[ edit ]
Click-through rates for banner ads have decreased over time. [ 5 ] When banner ads first started to appear, it was not uncommon to have rates above five percent. They have fallen since then, averaging closer to 0.1 percent as of 2023. [ 6 ] In most cases, a 2% click-through rate would be considered very successful, though the exact number is hotly debated and would vary depending on the situation. The average click-through rate of 3% in the 1990s declined to 2.4%–0.4% by 2002. [ 7 ] Since advertisers typically pay more for a high click-through rate, getting many click-throughs with few purchases is undesirable to advertisers. [ 8 ] Similarly, by selecting an appropriate advertising site with high affinity (e.g., a movie magazine for a movie advertisement), the same banner can achieve a substantially higher CTR. Though personalized ads, unusual formats, and more obtrusive ads typically result in higher click-through rates than standard banner ads, overly intrusive ads are often avoided by viewers. [ 7 ] [ 9 ]
Modern online advertising has moved beyond just using banner ads . Popular search engines allow advertisers to display ads with the search results triggered by a user's search. Search ads may include sitelinks, which provide additional links that direct users to specific pages on an advertiser's website, such as product or store-hours pages. [ 10 ] This additional information moves away from the poor user experience that can be created from intrusive banner ads and provides useful information to the search user, resulting in higher click-through rates for this format of pay-per-click Advertising. Since CTR is an expression of the relevancy of the ads to the user search, higher click-through rates are generally rewarded with a better quality score attributed to the ads, which in turn might lead to lower CPC , therefore incentivizing advertisers to continually improve the relevancy of their ads. However, having a high click-through rate isn't the only goal for an online advertiser, who may develop campaigns to raise awareness for the overall gain of valuable traffic, sacrificing some click-through rate for that purpose.
Estimating the Click-Through Rate for Ads
[ edit ]
Search engine advertising has become a significant element of the Web browsing experience. Choosing the right ads for the query and the order in which they are displayed greatly affects the probability that a user will see and click on each ad. This ranking has a strong impact on the revenue the search engine receives from the ads. Further, showing the user an ad that they prefer to click on improves user satisfaction . For these reasons, there is an increasing interest in accurately estimating the click-through rate of ads in a recommender system . [ 11 ]
Email
[ edit ]
An email click-through rate is defined as the number of recipients who click one or more links in an email and land on the sender's website, blog, or other desired destination. More simply, email click-through rates represent the number of clicks that your email generated. [ 12 ] [ 13 ]
Email click-through rate is calculated by dividing the number of clicks by the number of emails delivered and multiplying by 100. [ citation needed ] Delivered emails are used rather than emails sent because bounced messages cannot generate clicks. [ citation needed ]
Most email marketers use these metrics, along with open rate , bounce rate and other metrics, to understand the effectiveness and success of their email campaign. [ 14 ] In general, there is no ideal click-through rate. This metric can vary based on the type of email sent, how frequently emails are sent, how the list of recipients is segmented, how relevant the content of the email is to the audience, and many other factors. [ 15 ] Even the time of day can affect the click-through rate. Sunday appears to generate considerably higher click-through rates on average when compared to the rest of the week. [ 16 ]
Every year, various types of research studies are conducted to track the overall effectiveness of click-through rates in email marketing. [ 17 ] [ 18 ]
Click-Through Rate and Search Engine Optimization
[ edit ]
In search engine optimization , organic click-through rate refers to clicks from organic search results rather than pay-per-click advertisements. [ citation needed ] It is calculated by dividing the number of clicks an organic search listing receives by its number of impressions and multiplying by 100. [ citation needed ]
Some experts on search engine optimization (SEO) have claimed since the mid-2010s that click-through rate has an impact on organic rankings. [ 19 ] Numerous case studies have been published to support this theory. Proponents of this theory often claim that the click-through rate is a ranking signal for Google's RankBrain algorithm.
Opponents of this theory claim that the click-through rate has little or no impact on organic rankings. Bartosz Góralewicz published the results of an experiment on Search Engine Land where he claims, "Despite popular belief, click-through rate is not a ranking factor. Even massive organic traffic won't affect your website's organic positions." [ 20 ] More recently, Barry Schwartz wrote on Search Engine Land, "...Google has said countless times, in writing, at conferences, that CTR is not used in their ranking algorithm." [ 21 ] . However, the introduction of AI Overviews correlates with a measurable decline in organic visibility and clicks, particularly for top-ranking, non-branded keywords, according to two new data studies from SEO tool provider Ahrefs and performance agency Amsive. [ 22 ]
Recent developments in search interfaces may also affect click-through rates independently of ranking factors. For example, the introduction of AI-generated summaries in search results has been associated with a decline in organic click-through rates for top-ranking pages, as reported by industry analyses. [ 23 ]
See also
[ edit ]
Business and economics portal
Internet portal
Abandonment rate
Banner blindness
Clickbait
Click fraud
CPA – Cost per acquisition
Cost per action
Cost per click
Cost per lead
Cost per thousand
CPI
eCPA – effective cost per acquisition/action
Internet marketing
PPC – Pay per click
View-through rate
References
[ edit ]
↑ American Marketing Association Dictionary. "Dictionary" . Archived from the original on 2012-11-21 . Retrieved 2012-11-29 . . Retrieved 2012-11-02. The Marketing Accountability Standards Board (MASB) endorses this definition as part of its ongoing Common Language in Marketing Project .
↑ Lorente-Páramo, Ángel J.; Chaparro-Peláez, Julián; Hernández-García, Ángel (2020). "How to improve e-mail click-through rates – A national culture approach" . Technological Forecasting and Social Change . 161 120283. doi : 10.1016/j.techfore.2020.120283 . S2CID   224908552 .
↑ Wasserman, Todd (9 August 2013). "This Is the World's First Banner Ad" . Mashable . Retrieved 11 September 2015 .
1 2 Farris, Paul W.; Neil T. Bendle; Phillip E. Pfeifer; David J. Reibstein (2010). Marketing Metrics: The Definitive Guide to Measuring Marketing Performance. Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Pearson Education, Inc. ISBN   0-13-705829-2 . The Marketing Accountability Standards Board (MASB) endorses the definitions, purposes, and constructs of classes of measures that appear in Marketing Metrics as part of its ongoing Common Language in Marketing Project .
↑ Shimp, Terence A. (2008). Advertising Promotion and Other Aspects of Integrated Marketing Communications . Cengage Learning. p.   415. ISBN   978-0-324-59360-0 . Retrieved 18 September 2016 .
↑ "Display advertising clickthrough rates" . Smart Insights. 2023.
1 2 Li, Hairong (2004). "Internet Advertising Formats and Effectiveness" . Semantic Scholar . S2CID   14475745 . Retrieved 2024-07-31 .
↑ Stern, Andrew (February 1, 2010). "8 ways to improve your click-through rate" . iMedia Connection . Archived from the original on February 4, 2010 . Retrieved February 7, 2010 .
↑ "US20090157495A1 Immersion Into a Virtual Environment Through a Solicitation" . Espacenet . European Patent Office . Retrieved 7 September 2026 .
↑ "About sitelink assets" . Google Ads Help . Google . Retrieved 7 September 2026 .
↑ Richardson, Matthew; Dominowska, Ewa; Ragno, Robert (2007). "Predicting clicks: Estimating the click-through rate for new ads". Proceedings of the 16th international conference on World Wide Web . pp.   521– 530. doi : 10.1145/1242572.1242643 . ISBN   978-1-59593-654-7 .
↑ "Email Campaign Performance Metrics Definitions" . Archived from the original on December 19, 2012 . Retrieved December 18, 2012 .
↑ Kevin Gao. "Click Through Rates: Click Through Rates Numbers and Their Meaning" . Archived from the original on December 18, 2012 . Retrieved December 18, 2012 .
↑ "Email marketing metrics: Click through rate (CTR) relevant to email marketing measurement" . January 17, 2010. Archived from the original on 5 May 2011.
↑ "Average Email Click-Through Rate" . Archived from the original on 31 December 2012 . Retrieved December 20, 2012 .
↑ Pete Prestipino (July 21, 2011). "EMail Marketing Metrics 2011" .
↑ Matt McGee (July 23, 2012). "E-mail Open Rates Declining, Click-Through Rates Rising [ Study ] " .
↑ David Moth (July 24, 2012). "Email marketing stats: consumers open just 20% of messages" . Archived from the original on November 6, 2013.
↑ "Click-Through Rate (CTR): Is It a Google Ranking Factor?" . Search Engine Journal . October 17, 2021 . Retrieved 2022-12-07 .
↑ "Is CTR A Ranking Factor In Organic Results?" , Bartosz Góralewicz ,12 Aug 2015
↑ "Google doc rekindles myth that click-through rate affects rankings" , 21 Feb 2019
↑ "New data: Google AI Overviews are hurting click-through rates" , 21 April 2025
↑ Southern, Matt G. (2025-07-21). "Google CTRs Drop 32% For Top Result After AI Overview Rollout" . Search Engine Journal . Retrieved 2026-04-14 .
Further reading
[ edit ]
Sherman, Lee and John Deighton, (2001), "Banner advertising: Measuring effectiveness and optimizing placement," Journal of Interactive Marketing , Spring, Vol. 15, Iss. 2.
Ward A. Hanson and Kirthi Kalyanam, (2007), "Internet Marketing and eCommerce", Chapter8, Traffic Building , Thomson College Pub, Mason, Ohio.
External links
[ edit ]
MASB Official Website
Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Click-through_rate&oldid=1373708528 "
<div
[FOOTER] Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.