Join PromCon EU 2026   , the Prometheus users conference, on October 7–8, 2026 in Munich.
PromCon EU 2026   — Oct 7–8, Munich.

Prometheus

Docs Download Community Support & Training Blog

Ctrl + K

Show nav Introduction
Overview
First steps
Comparison to alternatives
FAQ
Roadmap
Design documents
Media
Glossary
Long-term support

Concepts
Data model
Metric types
Jobs and instances

Prometheus Server

Getting started
Installation
Configuration
Configuration
Recording rules
Alerting rules
Template examples
Template reference
HTTP configuration for promtool
Unit testing for rules
HTTPS and authentication

Agent Mode
Querying
Basics
Operators
Functions
Examples
HTTP API
Remote Read API

Storage
Federation
HTTP SD
Management API
Command Line
prometheus
promtool

Migration
API stability
Feature flags

Visualization
Expression browser
Grafana
Perses
Console templates

Instrumenting
Client libraries
Writing client libraries
Pushing metrics
Exporters and integrations
Writing exporters
Exposition formats
UTF-8 escaping schemes
Content negotiation

Operating
Security
Integrations

Alertmanager

Alerting overview
Alertmanager
Configuration
High Availability
Notification Integrations
Alerts API
Notification template reference
Notification template examples
Management API
HTTPS and authentication

Best practices
Metric and label naming
Consoles and dashboards
Instrumentation
Histograms and summaries
Alerting
Recording rules
When to use the Pushgateway
Remote write tuning
The Zen of Prometheus

Guides
Basic auth
Monitoring Docker container metrics using cAdvisor
Contributing
Use file-based service discovery to discover scrape targets
Instrumenting a Go application
Understanding and using the multi-target exporter pattern
Monitoring Linux host metrics with the Node Exporter
OpenTelemetry
UTF-8 in Prometheus
Docker Swarm
OpenMetrics 2.0 Migration Guide for Client Libraries
Query log
TLS encryption

Tutorials
Getting started with Prometheus
Understanding metric types
Instrumenting HTTP server written in Go
Visualizing metrics using Grafana
Alerting based on metrics

Specifications
Native Histograms
OpenMetrics
1.0
2.0

Remote Write
1.0
2.0

Metric types
The Prometheus instrumentation libraries offer four core metric types. With the
exception of native histograms, these are currently only differentiated in the
API of instrumentation libraries and in the exposition protocols.
The Prometheus server does not yet make
use of the type information and flattens all types except native histograms
into untyped time series of floating point values. Native histograms, however,
are ingested as time series of special composite histogram samples. In the
future, Prometheus might handle other metric types as composite
types , too. There
is also ongoing work to persist the type information of the simple float
samples.

Counter

A counter is a cumulative metric that represents a single monotonically
increasing counter   whose
value can only increase or be reset to zero on restart. For example, you can
use a counter to represent the number of requests served, tasks completed, or
errors.

Do not use a counter to expose a value that can decrease. For example, do not
use a counter for the number of currently running processes; instead use a gauge.

Instrumentation library usage documentation for counters:

- Go  

- Java  

- Python  

- Ruby  

- .Net  

- Rust  

Gauge

A gauge is a metric that represents a single numerical value that can
arbitrarily go up and down.

Gauges are typically used for measured values like temperatures or current
memory usage, but also "counts" that can go up and down, like the number of
concurrent requests.

Instrumentation library usage documentation for gauges:

- Go  

- Java  

- Python  

- Ruby  

- .Net  

- Rust  

Histogram

A histogram records observations (usually things like request durations or
response sizes) by counting them in configurable buckets. It also provides a sum
of all observed values. As such, a histogram is essentially a bucketed counter.
However, a histogram can also represent the current state of a distribution, in
which case it is called a gauge histogram . In contrast to the usual
counter-like histograms, gauge histograms are rarely directly exposed by
instrumented programs and are thus not (yet) usable in instrumentation
libraries, but they are represented in newer versions of the protobuf
exposition format and in OpenMetrics   . They are also
created regularly by PromQL expressions. For example, the outcome of applying
the rate function to a counter histogram is a gauge histogram, in the same
way as the outcome of applying the rate function to a counter is a gauge.

Histograms exists in two fundamentally different versions: The more recent
native histograms and the older classic histograms .

A native histogram is exposed and ingested as composite samples, where each
sample represents the count and sum of observations together with a dynamic set
of buckets.

A classic histogram, however, consists of multiple time series of simple float
samples. A classic histogram with a base metric name of <basename> results in
the following time series:

- cumulative counters for the observation buckets, exposed as
<basename>_bucket{le="<upper inclusive bound>"}

- the total sum of all observed values, exposed as <basename>_sum

- the count of events that have been observed, exposed as
<basename>_count (identical to <basename>_bucket{le="+Inf"} above)

Native histograms are generally much more efficient than classic histograms,
allow much higher resolution, do not require explicit configuration of bucket
boundaries during instrumentation, and provide atomicity when transferred over
the network (e.g. via the Prometheus remote write procol, where classic
histograms suffer from possible partial transfer because their constituent time
series are transferred independently). Their bucketing schema ensures that they
are always aggregatable with each other, even if the resolution might have
changed, while classic histograms with different bucket boundaries are not
generally aggregatable. If the instrumentation library you are using supports
native histograms (currently this is the case for Go and Java), you should
probably prefer native histograms over classic
histograms .

If you are stuck with classic histograms for whatever reason, there is a way to
get at least some of the benefits of native histograms: You can configure
Prometheus to ingest classic histograms into a special form of native
histograms, called Native Histograms with Custom Bucket boundaries (NHCB).
NHCBs are stored as the same composite samples as usual native histograms,
providing increased efficiency and atomic network transfers, similar to regular
native histgorms. However, the buckets of NHCBs still have the same layout as
in their classic counterparts, statically configured during instrumentation,
with the same limited resolution and range and the same problems of
aggregatability upon changing the bucket boundaries.

Use the histogram_quantile()
function to
calculate quantiles from histograms or even aggregations of histograms. It
works for both classic and native histograms, using a slightly different
syntax. Histograms are also suitable to calculate an Apdex
score   .

You can operate directly on the buckets of a classic histogram, as they are
represented as individual series (called <basename>_bucket{le="<upper inclusive bound>"} as described above). Remember, however, that these buckets
are cumulative   ,
i.e. every bucket counts all observations less than or equal to the upper
boundary provided as a label. With native histograms, you can look at
observations within given boundaries with the histogram_fraction()
function (to
calculate fractions of observations) and the trim operators (to filter for
the desired band of observations).

See histograms and summaries for details of
histogram usage and differences to summaries .

NOTE : Beginning with Prometheus v3.0, the values of the le label of classic
histograms are normalized during ingestion to follow the format of
OpenMetrics Canonical Numbers   .
Instrumentation library usage documentation for histograms:

- Go  

- Java  

- Python  

- Ruby  

- .Net  

- Rust  

Summary

Similar to a histogram , a summary samples observations (usually things like
request durations and response sizes). While it also provides a total count of
observations and a sum of all observed values, it calculates configurable
quantiles over a sliding time window.

A summary with a base metric name of <basename> exposes multiple time series
during a scrape:

- streaming φ-quantiles (0 ≤ φ ≤ 1) of observed events, exposed as <basename>{quantile="<φ>"}

- the total sum of all observed values, exposed as <basename>_sum

- the count of events that have been observed, exposed as <basename>_count

See histograms and summaries for
detailed explanations of φ-quantiles, summary usage, and differences
to histograms .

NOTE : Beginning with Prometheus v3.0, the values of the quantile label are normalized during
ingestion to follow the format of OpenMetrics Canonical Numbers   .
Instrumentation library usage documentation for summaries:

- Go  

- Java  

- Python  

- Ruby  

- .Net  

Previous
Data model

Edit
Edit this page
Issue
Report an issue

Next
Jobs and instances

On this page

© Prometheus Authors 2014- 2026 | All components are available under the Apache 2 License on GitHub .
© 2026 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved. The Linux Foundation has registered trademarks and uses trademarks. For a list of trademarks of The Linux Foundation, please see our Trademark Usage page.