Join PromCon EU 2026   , the Prometheus users conference, on October 7–8, 2026 in Munich.
PromCon EU 2026   — Oct 7–8, Munich.

Prometheus

Docs Download Community Support & Training Blog

Ctrl + K

Show nav Introduction
Overview
First steps
Comparison to alternatives
FAQ
Roadmap
Design documents
Media
Glossary
Long-term support

Concepts
Data model
Metric types
Jobs and instances

Prometheus Server

Getting started
Installation
Configuration
Configuration
Recording rules
Alerting rules
Template examples
Template reference
HTTP configuration for promtool
Unit testing for rules
HTTPS and authentication

Agent Mode
Querying
Basics
Operators
Functions
Examples
HTTP API
Remote Read API

Storage
Federation
HTTP SD
Management API
Command Line
prometheus
promtool

Migration
API stability
Feature flags

Visualization
Expression browser
Grafana
Perses
Console templates

Instrumenting
Client libraries
Writing client libraries
Pushing metrics
Exporters and integrations
Writing exporters
Exposition formats
UTF-8 escaping schemes
Content negotiation

Operating
Security
Integrations

Alertmanager

Alerting overview
Alertmanager
Configuration
High Availability
Notification Integrations
Alerts API
Notification template reference
Notification template examples
Management API
HTTPS and authentication

Best practices
Metric and label naming
Consoles and dashboards
Instrumentation
Histograms and summaries
Alerting
Recording rules
When to use the Pushgateway
Remote write tuning
The Zen of Prometheus

Guides
Basic auth
Monitoring Docker container metrics using cAdvisor
Contributing
Use file-based service discovery to discover scrape targets
Instrumenting a Go application
Understanding and using the multi-target exporter pattern
Monitoring Linux host metrics with the Node Exporter
OpenTelemetry
UTF-8 in Prometheus
Docker Swarm
OpenMetrics 2.0 Migration Guide for Client Libraries
Query log
TLS encryption

Tutorials
Getting started with Prometheus
Understanding metric types
Instrumenting HTTP server written in Go
Visualizing metrics using Grafana
Alerting based on metrics

Specifications
Native Histograms
OpenMetrics
1.0
2.0

Remote Write
1.0
2.0

Consoles and dashboards
CAUTION : Starting with Prometheus 3.0, console templates and libraries are no longer bundled with Prometheus. If you wish to use console templates, you must provide your own templates and libraries by specifying the --web.console.templates and --web.console.libraries command-line flags. This documentation page is maintained for historical reference and to demonstrate the capabilities of console templates. Please be aware that any referenced console libraries from the Prometheus 2.x branch are no longer maintained and may contain known security vulnerabilities (CVEs).
It can be tempting to display as much data as possible on a dashboard, especially
when a system like Prometheus offers the ability to have such rich
instrumentation of your applications. This can lead to consoles that are
impenetrable due to having too much information, that even an expert in the
system would have difficulty drawing meaning from.

Instead of trying to represent every piece of data you have, for operational
consoles think of what are the most likely failure modes and how you would use the
consoles to differentiate them. Take advantage of the structure of your
services. For example, if you have a big tree of services in an online-serving
system, latency in some lower service is a typical problem. Rather than showing
every service's information on a single large dashboard, build separate dashboards
for each service that include the latency and errors for each service they talk
to. You can then start at the top and work your way down to the problematic
service.

We have found the following guidelines very effective:

- Have no more than 5 graphs on a console.

- Have no more than 5 plots (lines) on each graph. You can get away with more if it is a stacked/area graph.

- When using the provided console template examples, avoid more than 20-30 entries in the right-hand-side table.

If you find yourself exceeding these, it could make sense to demote the visibility of
less important information, possibly splitting out some subsystems to a new console.
For example, you could graph aggregated rather than broken-down data, move
it to the right-hand-side table, or even remove data completely if it is rarely
useful - you can always look at it in the expression browser !

Finally, it is difficult for a set of consoles to serve more than one master.
What you want to know when oncall (what is broken?) tends to be very different
from what you want when developing features (how many people hit corner
case X?). In such cases, two separate sets of consoles can be useful.

Previous
Metric and label naming

Edit
Edit this page
Issue
Report an issue

Next
Instrumentation

On this page

© Prometheus Authors 2014- 2026 | All components are available under the Apache 2 License on GitHub .
© 2026 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved. The Linux Foundation has registered trademarks and uses trademarks. For a list of trademarks of The Linux Foundation, please see our Trademark Usage page.