Join PromCon EU 2026   , the Prometheus users conference, on October 7–8, 2026 in Munich.
PromCon EU 2026   — Oct 7–8, Munich.

Prometheus

Docs Download Community Support & Training Blog

Ctrl + K

Show nav Introduction
Overview
First steps
Comparison to alternatives
FAQ
Roadmap
Design documents
Media
Glossary
Long-term support

Concepts
Data model
Metric types
Jobs and instances

Prometheus Server

Getting started
Installation
Configuration
Configuration
Recording rules
Alerting rules
Template examples
Template reference
HTTP configuration for promtool
Unit testing for rules
HTTPS and authentication

Agent Mode
Querying
Basics
Operators
Functions
Examples
HTTP API
Remote Read API

Storage
Federation
HTTP SD
Management API
Command Line
prometheus
promtool

Migration
API stability
Feature flags

Visualization
Expression browser
Grafana
Perses
Console templates

Instrumenting
Client libraries
Writing client libraries
Pushing metrics
Exporters and integrations
Writing exporters
Exposition formats
UTF-8 escaping schemes
Content negotiation

Operating
Security
Integrations

Alertmanager

Alerting overview
Alertmanager
Configuration
High Availability
Notification Integrations
Alerts API
Notification template reference
Notification template examples
Management API
HTTPS and authentication

Best practices
Metric and label naming
Consoles and dashboards
Instrumentation
Histograms and summaries
Alerting
Recording rules
When to use the Pushgateway
Remote write tuning
The Zen of Prometheus

Guides
Basic auth
Monitoring Docker container metrics using cAdvisor
Contributing
Use file-based service discovery to discover scrape targets
Instrumenting a Go application
Understanding and using the multi-target exporter pattern
Monitoring Linux host metrics with the Node Exporter
OpenTelemetry
UTF-8 in Prometheus
Docker Swarm
OpenMetrics 2.0 Migration Guide for Client Libraries
Query log
TLS encryption

Tutorials
Getting started with Prometheus
Understanding metric types
Instrumenting HTTP server written in Go
Visualizing metrics using Grafana
Alerting based on metrics

Specifications
Native Histograms
OpenMetrics
1.0
2.0

Remote Write
1.0
2.0

Federation
Federation allows a Prometheus server to scrape selected time series from
another Prometheus server.

Note about native histograms: To scrape native histograms via federation, the
scraping Prometheus server needs to set scrape_native_histograms: true in its
scrape config, implying that the protobuf format is used for scraping. Should
the federated metrics contain a mix of different sample types (floats of any
flavor, counter histograms, or gauge histograms) for the same metric name, the
federation payload will contain multiple metric families with the same name
(but different types – for technical reasons, float samples are always federated
as untyped , while histogram samples are federated with their full type
information). Technically, this violates the rules of the protobuf exposition
format, but Prometheus is nevertheless able to ingest all metrics correctly.

Use cases

There are different use cases for federation. Commonly, it is used to either
achieve scalable Prometheus monitoring setups or to pull related metrics from
one service's Prometheus into another.

Hierarchical federation

Hierarchical federation allows Prometheus to scale to environments with tens of
data centers and millions of nodes. In this use case, the federation topology
resembles a tree, with higher-level Prometheus servers collecting aggregated
time series data from a larger number of subordinated servers.

For example, a setup might consist of many per-datacenter Prometheus servers
that collect data in high detail (instance-level drill-down), and a set of
global Prometheus servers which collect and store only aggregated data
(job-level drill-down) from those local servers. This provides an aggregate
global view and detailed local views.

Cross-service federation

In cross-service federation, a Prometheus server of one service is configured
to scrape selected data from another service's Prometheus server to enable
alerting and queries against both datasets within a single server.

For example, a cluster scheduler running multiple services might expose
resource usage information (like memory and CPU usage) about service instances
running on the cluster. On the other hand, a service running on that cluster
will only expose application-specific service metrics. Often, these two sets of
metrics are scraped by separate Prometheus servers. Using federation, the
Prometheus server containing service-level metrics may pull in the cluster
resource usage metrics about its specific service from the cluster Prometheus,
so that both sets of metrics can be used within that server.

Configuring federation

On any given Prometheus server, the /federate endpoint allows retrieving the
current value for a selected set of time series in that server. At least one
match[] URL parameter must be specified to select the series to expose. Each
match[] argument needs to specify an
instant vector selector like
up or {job="api-server"} . If multiple match[] parameters are provided,
the union of all matched series is selected.

To federate metrics from one server to another, configure your destination
Prometheus server to scrape from the /federate endpoint of a source server,
while also enabling the honor_labels scrape option (to not overwrite any
labels exposed by the source server) and passing in the desired match[]
parameters. For example, the following scrape_configs federates any series
with the label job="prometheus" or a metric name starting with job: from
the Prometheus servers at source-prometheus-{1,2,3}:9090 into the scraping
Prometheus:

scrape_configs :
- job_name : 'federate'
scrape_interval : 15s

honor_labels : true
metrics_path : '/federate'

params :
'match[]' :
- '{job="prometheus"}'
- '{__name__=~"job:.*"}'

static_configs :
- targets :
- 'source-prometheus-1:9090'
- 'source-prometheus-2:9090'
- 'source-prometheus-3:9090'

Previous
Storage

Edit
Edit this page
Issue
Report an issue

Next
HTTP SD

On this page

© Prometheus Authors 2014- 2026 | All components are available under the Apache 2 License on GitHub .
© 2026 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved. The Linux Foundation has registered trademarks and uses trademarks. For a list of trademarks of The Linux Foundation, please see our Trademark Usage page.