Join PromCon EU 2026   , the Prometheus users conference, on October 7–8, 2026 in Munich.
PromCon EU 2026   — Oct 7–8, Munich.

Prometheus

Docs Download Community Support & Training Blog

Ctrl + K

Show nav Introduction
Overview
First steps
Comparison to alternatives
FAQ
Roadmap
Design documents
Media
Glossary
Long-term support

Concepts
Data model
Metric types
Jobs and instances

Prometheus Server

Getting started
Installation
Configuration
Configuration
Recording rules
Alerting rules
Template examples
Template reference
HTTP configuration for promtool
Unit testing for rules
HTTPS and authentication

Agent Mode
Querying
Basics
Operators
Functions
Examples
HTTP API
Remote Read API

Storage
Federation
HTTP SD
Management API
Command Line
prometheus
promtool

Migration
API stability
Feature flags

Visualization
Expression browser
Grafana
Perses
Console templates

Instrumenting
Client libraries
Writing client libraries
Pushing metrics
Exporters and integrations
Writing exporters
Exposition formats
UTF-8 escaping schemes
Content negotiation

Operating
Security
Integrations

Alertmanager

Alerting overview
Alertmanager
Configuration
High Availability
Notification Integrations
Alerts API
Notification template reference
Notification template examples
Management API
HTTPS and authentication

Best practices
Metric and label naming
Consoles and dashboards
Instrumentation
Histograms and summaries
Alerting
Recording rules
When to use the Pushgateway
Remote write tuning
The Zen of Prometheus

Guides
Basic auth
Monitoring Docker container metrics using cAdvisor
Contributing
Use file-based service discovery to discover scrape targets
Instrumenting a Go application
Understanding and using the multi-target exporter pattern
Monitoring Linux host metrics with the Node Exporter
OpenTelemetry
UTF-8 in Prometheus
Docker Swarm
OpenMetrics 2.0 Migration Guide for Client Libraries
Query log
TLS encryption

Tutorials
Getting started with Prometheus
Understanding metric types
Instrumenting HTTP server written in Go
Visualizing metrics using Grafana
Alerting based on metrics

Specifications
Native Histograms
OpenMetrics
1.0
2.0

Remote Write
1.0
2.0

Alertmanager
The Alertmanager   handles alerts
sent by client applications such as the Prometheus server.
It takes care of deduplicating, grouping, and routing
them to the correct receiver integration such as email, PagerDuty, or OpsGenie.
It also takes care of silencing and inhibition of alerts.

The following describes the core concepts the Alertmanager implements. Consult
the configuration documentation to learn how to use them
in more detail.

Grouping

Grouping categorizes alerts of similar nature into a single notification. This
is especially useful during larger outages when many systems fail at once and
hundreds to thousands of alerts may be firing simultaneously.

Example: Dozens or hundreds of instances of a service are running in your
cluster when a network partition occurs. Half of your service instances
can no longer reach the database.
Alerting rules in Prometheus were configured to send an alert for each service
instance if it cannot communicate with the database. As a result hundreds of
alerts are sent to Alertmanager.

As a user, one only wants to get a single page while still being able to see
exactly which service instances were affected. Thus one can configure
Alertmanager to group alerts by their cluster and alertname so it sends a
single compact notification.

Grouping of alerts, timing for the grouped notifications, and the receivers
of those notifications are configured by a routing tree in the configuration
file.

Inhibition

Inhibition is a concept of suppressing notifications for certain alerts if
certain other alerts are already firing.

Example: An alert is firing that informs that an entire cluster is not
reachable. Alertmanager can be configured to mute all other alerts concerning
this cluster if that particular alert is firing.
This prevents notifications for hundreds or thousands of firing alerts that
are unrelated to the actual issue.

Inhibitions are configured through the Alertmanager's configuration file.

Silences

Silences are a straightforward way to simply mute alerts for a given time.
A silence is configured based on matchers, just like the routing tree. Incoming
alerts are checked whether they match all the equality or regular expression
matchers of an active silence.
If they do, no notifications will be sent out for that alert.

Silences are configured in the web interface of the Alertmanager.

Client behavior

The Alertmanager has special requirements for behavior of its
client. Those are only relevant for advanced use cases where Prometheus
is not used to send alerts.

High Availability

Alertmanager supports configuration to create a cluster for high availability.
This can be configured using the --cluster-*   flags.

It's important not to load balance traffic between Prometheus and its Alertmanagers, but instead, point Prometheus to a list of all Alertmanagers.

Alert limits (optional)

Alertmanager supports configuration to limit the number of active alerts per alertname.
This can be configured using the [--alerts.per-alertname-limit] flag.

When the limit is reached any new alerts are dropped, heartbeats from already know alerts are processed.
The known alert (fingerprint) automatically expire to make room for new alerts.

This feature is useful when an unexpected high number of instances of the same alert are sent to Alertmanager.
Limiting the number of alerts per alertname can prevent reliability issues and avoid alert receivers from being flooded.

The alertmanager_alerts_limited_total metric shows the total number of alerts that were dropped due to per alert name limit.
Enabling the alert-names-in-metrics feature flag will add the alertname label to the metric.

Previous
Alerting overview

Edit
Edit this page
Issue
Report an issue

Next
Configuration

On this page

© Prometheus Authors 2014- 2026 | All components are available under the Apache 2 License on GitHub .
© 2026 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved. The Linux Foundation has registered trademarks and uses trademarks. For a list of trademarks of The Linux Foundation, please see our Trademark Usage page.