Join PromCon EU 2026   , the Prometheus users conference, on October 7–8, 2026 in Munich.
PromCon EU 2026   — Oct 7–8, Munich.

Prometheus

Docs Download Community Support & Training Blog

Ctrl + K

Show nav Introduction
Overview
First steps
Comparison to alternatives
FAQ
Roadmap
Design documents
Media
Glossary
Long-term support

Concepts
Data model
Metric types
Jobs and instances

Prometheus Server

Getting started
Installation
Configuration
Configuration
Recording rules
Alerting rules
Template examples
Template reference
HTTP configuration for promtool
Unit testing for rules
HTTPS and authentication

Agent Mode
Querying
Basics
Operators
Functions
Examples
HTTP API
Remote Read API

Storage
Federation
HTTP SD
Management API
Command Line
prometheus
promtool

Migration
API stability
Feature flags

Visualization
Expression browser
Grafana
Perses
Console templates

Instrumenting
Client libraries
Writing client libraries
Pushing metrics
Exporters and integrations
Writing exporters
Exposition formats
UTF-8 escaping schemes
Content negotiation

Operating
Security
Integrations

Alertmanager

Alerting overview
Alertmanager
Configuration
High Availability
Notification Integrations
Alerts API
Notification template reference
Notification template examples
Management API
HTTPS and authentication

Best practices
Metric and label naming
Consoles and dashboards
Instrumentation
Histograms and summaries
Alerting
Recording rules
When to use the Pushgateway
Remote write tuning
The Zen of Prometheus

Guides
Basic auth
Monitoring Docker container metrics using cAdvisor
Contributing
Use file-based service discovery to discover scrape targets
Instrumenting a Go application
Understanding and using the multi-target exporter pattern
Monitoring Linux host metrics with the Node Exporter
OpenTelemetry
UTF-8 in Prometheus
Docker Swarm
OpenMetrics 2.0 Migration Guide for Client Libraries
Query log
TLS encryption

Tutorials
Getting started with Prometheus
Understanding metric types
Instrumenting HTTP server written in Go
Visualizing metrics using Grafana
Alerting based on metrics

Specifications
Native Histograms
OpenMetrics
1.0
2.0

Remote Write
1.0
2.0

Metric and label naming
The metric and label conventions presented in this document are not required
for using Prometheus, but can serve as both a style-guide and a collection of
best practices. Individual organizations may want to approach some of these
practices, e.g. naming conventions, differently.

Metric names

A metric name...

- ...MUST comply with the data model for valid characters.

- ...SHOULD have a (single-word) application prefix relevant to the domain the
metric belongs to. The prefix is sometimes referred to as namespace by
client libraries. For metrics specific to an application, the prefix is
usually the application name itself. Sometimes, however, metrics are more
generic, like standardized metrics exported by client libraries. Examples:

- prometheus _notifications_total
(specific to the Prometheus server)

- process _cpu_seconds_total
(exported by many client libraries)

- http _request_duration_seconds
(for all HTTP requests)

- ...MUST refer to a single unit (e.g. do not mix seconds with milliseconds) and to a single quantity (e.g. do not mix request size with request duration).

- ...SHOULD use base units (e.g. seconds, bytes, meters - not milliseconds, megabytes, kilometers). See below for a list of base units.

- ...SHOULD have a suffix describing the unit, in plural form. Note that an accumulating count has total as a suffix, in addition to the unit if applicable. Also note that this applies to units in the narrow sense (like the units in the table below), but not to countable things in general. For example, connections or notifications are not considered units for this rule and do not have to be at the end of the metric name. (See also examples in the next paragraph.)

- http_request_duration_ seconds

- node_memory_usage_ bytes

- http_requests_ total
(for a unit-less accumulating count)

- process_cpu_ seconds_total
(for an accumulating count with unit)

- foobar_build _info
(for a pseudo-metric that provides metadata   about the running binary)

- data_pipeline_last_record_processed_ timestamp_seconds
(for a timestamp that tracks the time of the latest record processed in a data processing pipeline)

- ...MAY order its name components in a way that leads to convenient grouping when a list of metric names is sorted lexicographically, as long as all the other rules are followed. The following examples have their the common name components first so that all the related metrics are sorted together:

- prometheus_tsdb_head_truncations_closed_total

- prometheus_tsdb_head_truncations_established_total

- prometheus_tsdb_head_truncations_failed_total

- prometheus_tsdb_head_truncations_total

The following examples are also valid, but are following a different trade-off. They are easier to read individually, but unrelated metrics like prometheus_tsdb_head_series might get sorted in between.

- prometheus_tsdb_head_closed_truncations_total

- prometheus_tsdb_head_established_truncations_total

- prometheus_tsdb_head_failed_truncations_total

- prometheus_tsdb_head_truncations_total

- ...SHOULD represent the same logical thing-being-measured across all label
dimensions.

- request duration

- bytes of data transfer

- instantaneous resource usage as a percentage

As a rule of thumb, either the sum() or the avg() over all dimensions of a
given metric should be meaningful (though not necessarily useful). If it is not
meaningful, split the data up into multiple metrics. For example, having the
capacity of various queues in one metric is good, while mixing the capacity of a
queue with the current number of elements in the queue is not.

Why include unit and type suffixes in metric names?

Some metric naming conventions (e.g. OpenTelemetry) do not recommend or even do not allow
including information about a metric unit and type in the metric name. A common
argument is that those pieces of information are already defined somewhere else (e.g. schema,
metadata, other labels, etc.).

Prometheus strongly recommends including unit and type in a metric name, even if you store that
information elsewhere, because of the following practical reasons:

- Metric consumption reliability and UX : When interacting with a modern UI to
use such a metric in PromQL, it's possible to display rich information about the metric's type and unit
(autocompletion, overlays, pop-ups). Unfortunately, interactive, adhoc querying in a powerful UI is not
the only way that users interact with metrics. Metric consumption ecosystem is vast. Majority
of the consumption comes in a form of the plain YAML configuration for variety of observability tools like
alerting, recording, autoscaling, dashboards, analysis, processing, etc. It's critical , especially
during monitoring/SRE incident practices to look on PromQL expressions in plain YAML and understand
the underlying metric type and unit you work with.

- Metric collisions : With growing adoption and metric changes over time, there are cases where lack
of unit and type information in the metric name will cause certain series to collide (e.g. process_cpu for seconds and milliseconds).

Labels

Use labels to differentiate the characteristics of the thing that is being measured:

- api_http_requests_total - differentiate request types: operation="create|update|delete"

- api_request_duration_seconds - differentiate request stages: stage="extract|transform|load"

Do not put the label names in the metric name, as this introduces redundancy
and will cause confusion if the respective labels are aggregated away.

CAUTION : Remember that every unique combination of key-value label
pairs represents a new time series, which can dramatically increase the amount
of data stored. Do not use labels to store dimensions with high cardinality
(many different label values), such as user IDs, email addresses, or other
unbounded sets of values.
Base Units

Prometheus does not have any units hard coded. For better compatibility, base
units should be used. The following lists some metrics families with their base unit.
The list is not exhaustive.

Family Base unit Remark
Time seconds
Temperature celsius celsius is preferred over kelvin for practical reasons. kelvin is acceptable as a base unit in special cases like color temperature or where temperature has to be absolute.
Length meters
Bytes bytes
Bits bytes To avoid confusion combining different metrics, always use bytes , even where bits appear more common.
Percent ratio Values are 0–1 (rather than 0–100). ratio is only used as a suffix for names like disk_usage_ratio . The usual metric name follows the pattern A_per_B .
Voltage volts
Electric current amperes
Energy joules
Power Prefer exporting a counter of joules, then rate(joules[5m]) gives you power in Watts.
Mass grams grams is preferred over kilograms to avoid issues with the kilo prefix.

Previous
HTTPS and authentication

Edit
Edit this page
Issue
Report an issue

Next
Consoles and dashboards

On this page

© Prometheus Authors 2014- 2026 | All components are available under the Apache 2 License on GitHub .
© 2026 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved. The Linux Foundation has registered trademarks and uses trademarks. For a list of trademarks of The Linux Foundation, please see our Trademark Usage page.