                             Link & Learn Taxes
                          Certification Tests: Getting Started

VITA/TCE Central

All volunteers are required to register and certify via Link & Learn Taxes online testing
site, VITA/TCE Central. You can register and login into the test using VITA/TCE
Central. In addition, return here to access the latest training and testing materials using
Quick Links. Quick Links will include a file for all the certification tests and VITA/TCE
training guides (including the optional specialty courses) in Adobe Acrobat PDF file
format. In addition, you can access the Volunteer Standards of Conduct (VSOC)
Training course, Intake/Interview and Quality Review Training, the Practice Lab, and the
evaluations.




                                                                                                          Access the
                                                                                                          latest training
                                                                                                          and testing
                                                                                                          materials using
                                                                                                          Quick Links.




Publication 5378 (Rev. 11-2025) Catalog Number 73505K Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov
     •   Click on the sign in or create account area to get to the log in screen shown
         here. Select the Forgot Password link if you can’t remember your password
         and the site will send an email to reset it.




•   The system will allow only one account per email address. In case your email
    address has changed, you can update your email address by clicking your Profile after
    logging in. If you already have an account, the system will not allow you to create a new
    account with the same email address.
•   Should you ever forget your password, a valid email address is required to send you a
    new password.




                                                2
How to Register
To become certified for the VITA/TCE Programs, you must first self-register in the
VITA/TCE Central testing system (your Practice Lab username and password will
not work on the certification test site):
•   Go to the VITA/TCE Central homepage at https://linklearncertification.com/.
    (Add to Favorites for easy access later.)
•   Click the Create Account button to set up a new volunteer account. Volunteers
    are only allowed one account. Complete the fields to create your account in the
    system. Required fields are marked by an asterisk (*), but all others are optional.




                                                                 Make sure the name
                                                                 entered matches your
                                                                 government issued ID.
                                                                 Do not use nicknames.




                                              3
After entering all required information, click Continue, and the User Profile screen
appears.




Once you select Create Account, you will receive the welcome to VITA/TCE
screen and a verification email.




                                             4
Click or copy and paste the URL from the email into your browser, and you should
get this screen:




Select Continue to get to the next screen.




                                             5
Select the applicable position(s) and then click the green save button in the top right
corner. It takes you to the VITA/TCE home page screen to start the exams.




Click on your initials at the top right (shown by the arrow above) and then select
Profile to complete your profile entries.




                                              6
•   Optional: Professional Status. This field must be completed by all volunteers
    requesting IRS SPEC Continuing Education (CE) Credits. Non-credentialed tax
    return preparers must be participating in the Annual Filing Season Program to be
    eligible for SPEC CE Credits.
•   Optional: A PTIN is a “Preparer Tax Identification Number” issued by the IRS. If you
    have a PTIN, enter it in the appropriate place on the registration form. The PTIN
    must start with the letter P, followed by eight digits. Do not include a hyphen. If you
    do not have a PTIN, leave this field blank. Volunteers requesting CE Credits must

                                              7
  provide a PTIN number except for Attorneys, CPAs, and CFPs.
Note: You can always update or change your personal information, group, professional
status, email address, or password by clicking on your Initials, a drop down will
appear, then click on Profile.




         TIP

   Problems with the Certification Test website?
   • Try using the link www.linklearncertification.com/
   • Try adding www.linklearncertification.com as a “trusted site” in Internet browser.
   • Use a different browser such as Google Chrome or Firefox.
   • Make sure your browser settings have pop-up blockers turned off.
   • Still having problems? For login problems or other technical issues, use the Help
     Center link on VITA/TCE Central (include your name, address and email).
   • Sorry – technical support by telephone is not available.




                                                    8
Volunteer Standards of Conduct Training and Test
To participate in the VITA/TCE program, first review the IRS Volunteer Standards of
Conduct (VSOC) training course, which can be accessed on the VITA/TCE Central portal
page. Then, you must pass the Volunteer Standards of Conduct (VSOC) test:
•   Click on your course of training, such as Basic, Advanced, Military, or
    International. All tabs include a link to the VSOC exam and Intake/Interview and
    Quality Review exam except for Over-the-Phone Interpreter, which has only the
    VSOC exam as a prerequisite.




                                             9
• You’ll begin the exam by clicking the Start button. To review the training, click on the
  words Volunteer Standards of Conduct Test. See the topic below on Taking
  VITA/TCE Certification Tests for more information on navigating through exams.
• You must pass the VSOC Exam with a score of 80% or greater. If you fail the exam,
  you may review the VSOC lesson and take the exam again. The exam questions may
  be different on the second attempt.
•   When you pass the exam, click on My Learning, review the achievement section, and
    print your certificate of completion.
Note: The Volunteer Standards of Conduct Exam is a prerequisite to all other courses. If
you do not pass this exam after the second attempt, you may not proceed to any other
exams.


Intake/Interview & Quality Review Exam
All tax preparers, Quality Reviewers, Instructors, and Site Coordinators must pass the
Intake/Interview and Quality Review test. First review the Intake/Interview and Quality
                                           10
Review Training course located under “Quick Links” on the VITA/TCE Central portal
page. Then, log in to the test center and click on the link to the Intake/Interview and
Quality Review Exam.
You must pass the 10-question exam with a score of 80% or greater. If you fail the exam,
you may review the Intake/Interview and Quality Review Training and take the exam
again. The exam questions may be different on the second attempt.
It is not possible to take any of the other exams without first passing both the VSOC
exam and the Intake/ Interview and Quality Review exam.

Signing Your Form 13615, Volunteer Agreement

After passing any of the exams, you may sign your Form 13615, Volunteer Standards of
Conduct Agreement – VITA/TCE Programs. Click on the Sign Form 13615 button below.




                                            11
12
    –   All completed and passed exams are entered automatically on page 2 of the form.
    –   All the information from your registration page will transfer to Form 13615.
    –   The sponsoring partner/site name and approving official name and title can be
        manually completed by volunteers.
    –   You may print this document at any time.
After completing all the exams you plan to take, print or save Form 13615, read and sign
it, and return it to your sponsor or Site Coordinator. Form 13615 must be signed and
dated by the Site Coordinator, sponsoring partner, instructor, or IRS contact. The site
coordinator must verify your name and address with your government issued photo
identification and confirm you have completed the required training and certification
prior to working at a site. Electronic, typed, or manual signatures are allowed for Form
13615. When you complete the online certification test, you will automatically be
included on a list of certified volunteers.

If you complete another exam after signing the Form 13615, you can re-sign and
generate an updated form.

Taking VITA/TCE Certification Tests
The test scenarios on VITA/TCE Central are the same as in the printed test booklet
(Form 6744, VITA/ TCE Volunteer Assistor’s Test/Retest). Volunteers taking the test
will be presented with the test from the 6744. If volunteers fail an exam, the retest will
be presented on the second attempt.
Volunteers preparing tax returns must pass either the Basic or Advanced certification
test. Note that Basic and Advanced are standalone certifications; it is not required to
take the Basic exam if you wish to certify in Advanced. A minimum score of 80% is
required to pass each certification test. Only volunteers who have passed the
Advanced exam may choose to test for the Military and International certifications. The
Site Coordinator test is an annual requirement. Site coordinators must achieve a
passing score of 80% or higher prior to the site opening. You are allowed two attempts
to take each exam.
To take an exam:
•   Click on the Icon for the certification path you want to complete. All the exams
    available for each certification path will be listed under the corresponding
    icons.
TIP For fill-in-the-blank questions:
• Enter numbers. Do not enter dollar signs, commas, periods, or decimal points. For example, for
    “nineteen thousand dollars” enter: 19000
• Enter negate numbers using the minus sign on your keyboard.
• Round decimals up or down to the nearest whole number.

                                               13
•   Some test questions may have links to tax tables or course scenarios. Open these
    PDF documents if available and either leave them open on your computer for
    reference or print them out.
•   To navigate within a certification test, use the simple controls available on each test
    screen.
    –   Back: Takes you to the previous screen or question
    –   Next: Takes you to the next screen or question

•   You cannot use Next or Back without answering the question on the screen. You
    cannot skip a question.
•   You may stop and close the test at any time.
•   When you have reached the last question of the exam, you’ll only see a red back
                                              14
   button or green submit button. There is no dedicated Review. Before hitting the green
   submit button, you can use the back button to review all answers. If you fail the test,
   you will see this screen:




Click on Review to see the correct/incorrect responses and feedback. Once you finish,
click Continue and it will take you to the retest.

Once you pass the exam, you will see this screen:




Click on the red Close button to go to next exam.




                                           15
Puerto Rico Tests
•   All volunteers are required to complete the Volunteer Standards of Conduct
    (VSOC) test and the Intake/Interview & Quality Review test before taking other
    exams.
•   Click on Puerto Rico to access the Puerto Rico tests.
•   Volunteers must pass the Basic Exam (or Advanced Exam) before proceeding
    to the Puerto Rico Level I exam.
•   Volunteers may proceed to Puerto Rico Level II exam after certification in Puerto Rico
    Level I.
•   You should take either the English or Spanish language Puerto Rico test, but not both.
•   Each test must be passed with a minimum score of 80%.

Foreign Student Test
•   All volunteers are required to complete the Volunteer Standards of Conduct
    (VSOC) test and the Intake/Interview & Quality Review test before taking other
    exams.
•   Click on Foreign Student to access the test.
•   The test must be passed with a minimum score of 80%.

Site Coordinator Course

•   All volunteers, including Site Coordinators, are required to complete the
    Volunteer Standards of Conduct (VSOC) test and the Intake/Interview & Quality
    Review test before taking other exams.
•   Volunteers registered as Site Coordinators are also required to complete the Site
    Coordinator training course. If you did not select the Site Coordinator training course
    when you registered, you can change your selection in your profile.
•   Click the Site Coordinator Course link to launch the course.
•   A certification test is required for Site Coordinators and Alternate Coordinators.
    This is an annual requirement.

Continuing Education Credit Certificate
•   Certificates will be available to print on the VITA/TCE Central home page for each
    volunteer that has met all requirements of the program.
•   All eligible volunteers are required to select a Professional Status in their
    Profile. A certificate will not generate if not selected.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI)
                                              16
•   All volunteers are required to complete the Volunteer Standards of Conduct
    (VSOC) test before taking this exam.
•   Register as an OPI volunteer in your Profile.

References
For Quick Links to Volunteer Standards of Conduct Training, Intake/Interview and
Quality Review Training, Link & Learn Taxes Lessons, Certification Test/Retest
PDFs, Practice Lab, Evaluations, and more, refer to Quick Links and Resources in
the Footer on every page.
Click here for guidance on Continuing Education Credits
Click here for IRS Publications and Forms
Click here for Adobe Reader

For login problems or other technical issues, email the
Certification Test Help Desk at linklearnsupport@archsystemsinc.com.




                                             17
