Updated July 31, 2020

Introduction to U.S. Economy: The Business Cycle and Growth
On June 8, 2020, the National Bureau of Economic
Research (NBER), an independent, nonprofit, research
group, determined that economic activity in the U.S. peaked
in February 2020 and that the economy subsequently
entered into a recession in the same month. On a quarterly
basis, economic activity peaked in the fourth quarter of
2019. This In Focus discusses the business cycle, how
recessions are determined, and potential causes and effects
of these fluctuations in the economy.

What Is the Business Cycle?
Over time, economic activity tends to fluctuate between
periods of increasing economic activity, known as
economic expansions and periods of decreasing economic
activity, known as recessions. Real gross domestic product
(GDP)—total economic output adjusted for inflation—is
the broadest measure of economic activity. The economy’s
movement through these alternating periods of growth and
contraction is known as the business cycle. The business
cycle has four phases: the expansion, peak, contraction, and
trough, as shown in Figure 1.
Figure 1. Stylized Depiction of the Business Cycle

although this was not the case with the Coronavirus Disease
2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. During an expansion, there
may also be short periods of decreasing economic activity
interspersed within an expansionary period, and vice versa.

Dating the Business Cycles
Business cycles are dated according to the peaks and
troughs of economic activity. A single business cycle is
dated from peak to peak or trough to trough. NBER’s
Business Cycle Dating Committee is generally credited
with identifying business cycles in the United States.
NBER does not define a recession as two consecutive
quarters of declining real GDP, which is a popular metric
used by the media. Rather NBER uses a broader definition
of a recession, as a period where there is a significant
decline in economic activity that spreads across the
economy. NBER uses a number of indicators to meas ure
economic activity, including real GDP, economy-wide
employment, real sales, and industrial production.
Figure presents real GDP from the first quarter of 1947
through the second quarter of 2020, along with recessions,
as identified by NBER, represented with orange bars. Over
this period, real GDP grew at a 3.0% average annual rate.
Figure 2. Real GDP and Recessions
1947:Q1–2020:Q2

Source: Congressional Research Service.

As the economy moves through the business cycle, a
number of additional economic indicators tend to shift
alongside GDP. During an economic expansion, economywide employment, incomes, industrial production, and sales
all tend to increase alongside the rising real GDP.
Additionally, over the course of an economic expansion, the
rate of inflation tends to increase, although the 2009-2020
expansion showed that inflation can remain low while the
economy is growing. During a recession, the opposite tends
to occur. All of these indicators do not shift simultaneously,
but they tend to shift around the same time.
Although these fluctuations in economic activity are
referred to as a “cycle,” the economy generally does not
exhibit a regular and smooth cycle as shown in Figure 1.
Predicting recessions and expansions is notoriously difficult
due to the irregular pattern of the business cycle; a single
quarter of economic data can be too short to predict a trend,

Source: U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA).
Note: Orange bars represent recessions as defined by NBER.

The economy tends to experience longer periods of
expansion than contraction, especially since World War II
(WWII). Between 1945 and 2019, the end of the most
recent business cycle, the average expansion has lasted
about 65 months, and the average recession has lasted about
11 months. Between the 1850’s and WWII, the average
expansion lasted less than half as long (about 26 months),
and the average recession lasted about twice as long (about
21 months). The 2009-2020 expansion was the longest on
record, at 128 months.

https://crsreports.congress.gov

Introduction to U.S. Economy: The Business Cycle and Grow th

The most recently completed recession in the United States,
the so-called Great Recession, began in December 2007 and
ended in June 2009, a total of 18 months. Since the 1850’s,
in the United States, 12 other recessions have lasted as long
as or longer than the Great Recession; however, all these
recessions occurred before the Great Depression of the
1930’s. It is too soon to tell if the current recession will
surpass the Great Recession in length, and due to the lag
between when a recession begins or ends and when NBER
announces it, this may not be known for some time.
Marking the end of a recession does not necessarily mean
that the economy has returned to its pre-recession level of
economic activity. For example, one important economic
metric, the unemployment rate, tends to continue to
increase following a recession as individuals return to the
labor force and begin searching for employment. Following
the Great Recession, the economy did not return to what is
considered “full employment” until the summer of 2015,
six years after NBER had declared the recession over.

Short-Term Economic Growth
In the short term, the business cycle is primarily driven by
fluctuations in consumer spending and business investment.
Over the business cycle, the rate at which the economy is
expanding or contracting can be significantly different. For
example, during the 2009-2020 expansion, real GDP grew
at an average pace of about 2.3% per year, whereas real
GDP shrank at an annual rate of 5.0% in the first quarter of
2020 and 32.9% in the second quarter. Over longer periods
of time, the volatility of the business cycle fades to reveal a
pattern of growth in the economy.

Potential Causes of the Business Cycle
In general, the business cycle is governed by aggregate
demand (total spending) within the economy, but recessions
can also be caused by sudden shocks to supply, which will
impact both aggregate supply and aggregate demand. The
current recession is unusual in that it displays elements of
both demand and supply shocks. This section discusses
these types of shocks in more detail.
Demand Shocks
Changes in consumer or business confidence can impact
aggregate demand. If individuals believe the economy will
perform poorly in the future, individuals are likely to
increase how much they save to prepare for lean times
ahead. The associated decrease in spending would lower
aggregate demand. Similarly, if businesses perceive that the
economy is about to enter a recession, they are less likely to
make investments in new machinery or factories because
consumers would not be able to afford their new products
during the recession.
The ongoing COVID-19 public health crisis has contributed
to the current recession in this manner. Uncertainty
surrounding the virus and the state of the economy
combined with high unemployment levels has resulted in
decreased consumption and increased saving (as a
percentage of income) on the part of consumers and
decreased desire to increase capital investment on the part
of firms.

Supply Shocks
As part of a global economy, events outside of the United
States can often impact aggregate demand inside the United
States, such as the 1979 oil shock that led to increased
prices across the U.S. economy, resulting in a recession. In
some ways, the current recession is also an example of a
supply shock; the need for social distancing has halted
commerce significantly and created challenges in supply
chains. Whereas demand for certain products has been high
and led to corrections in some supply chains (toilet paper,
cleaning products, etc.), demand for many products has
been low. Should aggregate demand increase, the economy
may experience more unforeseen supply issues.

Policy Options
Government policy, specifically monetary and fiscal policy,
can impact aggregate demand either directly or indirectly.
Congress, together with the President, is responsible for
fiscal policy in the United States through changes in the
level of government spending and tax revenue. Fiscal
policy can directly increase aggregate demand by
increasing government spending, reducing taxes, increasing
government transfers to individuals, or a combination of the
three. During a recession, the government will typically
finance these policies by borrowing money, referred to as
deficit financing. The government has used fiscal stimulus
tools during the current crisis when, for example, it sent out
stimulus checks directly to consumers or when it
temporarily increased unemployment benefits.
Monetary policy can also be used to impact aggregate
demand. The Federal Reserve implements monetary policy
by changing short-term interest rates and the availability of
credit in the economy. For example, lowering interest rates,
which the Federal Reserve did in response to COVID-19,
can encourage businesses to make new investments and
individuals to buy new goods, as lower interest rates make
it less expensive to borrow money.
Fiscal and monetary policy, when implemented
successfully, can help reduce economic volatility. However,
when unsuccessful, these policies may exacerbate the
fluctuations of the business cycle. The fiscal and monetary
policy options discussed in this section are countercyclical
policies, meaning that they work to counter the business
cycle. For example, countercyclical fiscal policy might
include increasing government spending during a recession
and decreasing government spending during an expansion.
However, growth-oriented policies, when timed improperly,
can cause the economy to overheat (growing at an
unsustainable rate) and subsequently cause a downturn.

Additional CRS Resources
CRS In Focus IF10408, Introduction to U.S. Economy:
GDP and Economic Growth, by Mark P. Keightley.
(Note: This In Focus was originally authored by Jeffrey
Stupak, former CRS Analyst in Macroeconomic Policy.)
Lida R. Weinstock, Analyst in Macroeconomic Policy

https://crsreports.congress.gov

IF10411

Introduction to U.S. Economy: The Business Cycle and Grow th

Disclaimer
This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should not be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyright protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permissio n of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.

https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF10411 · VERSION 8 · UPDATED

