Updated April 1, 2025

Introduction to U.S. Economy: Monetary Policy
The Federal Reserve (Fed), the nation’s central bank, is
responsible for monetary policy. This In Focus explains
how monetary policy works. Typically, when the Fed wants
to stimulate the economy, it makes policy more
expansionary by reducing short-term interest rates. When it
wants to make policy more contractionary or tighter, it
raises rates. The Fed reduced interest rates three times in
the last third of 2024, reversing some of the early interest
rate hikes it had implemented in an attempt to reduce
inflation. (To date, there have been no rate changes in
2025.) For background on the Fed and its other
responsibilities, see CRS In Focus IF10054, Introduction to
Financial Services: The Federal Reserve.

Federal Open Market Committee
Monetary policy decisions are made by the Federal Open
Market Committee (FOMC), whose voting members are the
Fed’s seven governors, the New York Federal Reserve
Bank president, and four other reserve bank presidents, who
vote on a rotating basis. The FOMC is chaired by the Fed
chair. FOMC meetings are regularly scheduled every six
weeks, but the chair sometimes calls unscheduled meetings.
After these meetings, the FOMC statement announcing any
changes to monetary policy is released.

Statutory Goals
In 1977, the Fed was statutorily mandated to set monetary
policy to promote the goals of “maximum employment,
stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates.” The
first two goals are referred to as the dual mandate. The dual
mandate provides the Fed with discretion on how to
interpret maximum employment and stable prices and how
to set monetary policy to achieve those goals. There are no
formal repercussions when goals are not met.
Since 2012, the FOMC has explained how it carries out its
mandate in its Statement on Longer-Run Goals. It defines
stable prices as 2% inflation, measured as the annual
percent change in the personal consumption expenditures
price index. In the FOMC’s view, maximum employment
“is not directly measurable and changes over time owing
largely to nonmonetary factors that affect the structure and
dynamics of the labor market.” In 2025, the Fed is
conducting a review of the Statement. Some have
questioned whether 2020 revisions to the Statement
contributed to high post-pandemic inflation.

Federal Funds Rate

In normal economic conditions, the Fed’s primary
instrument for setting monetary policy is the federal funds
rate (FFR), the overnight interest rate in the federal funds
market, a private market where banks lend to each other.
The FOMC sets a target range for the FFR that is 0.25
percentage points wide and uses its policy tools (discussed

below) to keep the actual FFR within that range. (The
current FFR target can be found here.)

Monetary Policy and the Economy
Changes in the FFR target lead to changes in interest rates
throughout the economy, although these changes are mostly
less than one-to-one. Changes in interest rates affect overall
economic activity by changing the demand for interestsensitive spending (goods and services that are bought on
credit). The main categories of interest-sensitive spending
are business physical capital investment (e.g., plant and
equipment), consumer durables (e.g., automobiles,
appliances), and residential investment (new housing
construction). All else equal, higher interest rates reduce—
and lower rates increase—interest-sensitive spending.
Interest rates also influence the demand for exports and
imports by affecting the value of the dollar. All else equal,
higher interest rates increase net foreign capital inflows as
U.S. assets become more attractive relative to foreign
assets. To purchase U.S. assets, foreigners must first
purchase U.S. dollars, pushing up the value of the dollar.
When the value of the dollar rises, the price of foreign
imports declines relative to U.S. import-competing goods,
and U.S. exports become more expensive relative to foreign
goods. As a result, net exports (exports less imports)
decrease. When interest rates fall, all of these factors work
in reverse and net exports increase, all else equal.
Business investment, consumer durables, residential
investment, and net exports are all components of gross
domestic product (GDP). Thus, if expansionary monetary
policy causes interest-sensitive spending to rise, it increases
GDP in the short run. This increases employment, as more
workers are hired to meet increased demand for goods and
services. An increase in spending also puts upward pressure
on inflation. Contractionary monetary policy has the
opposite effect on GDP, employment, and inflation. The
Fed chooses whether to make monetary policy
expansionary or contractionary based on how employment
and inflation are performing compared to its statutory
goals—expansionary policy can boost employment but
risks spurring inflation, while contractionary policy can
constrain inflation but risks decreasing employment.
Most economists believe that although monetary policy can
permanently change the inflation rate, it cannot
permanently change the level or growth rate of GDP,
because long-run GDP is determined by the economy’s
productive capacity (the size of the labor force, capital
stock, and so on). If monetary policy pushes demand above
what the economy can produce, then inflation should
eventually rise to restore equilibrium. The Fed can
preemptively change interest rates to take into account the

https://crsreports.congress.gov

Introduction to U.S. Economy: Monetary Policy

lags between a change in monetary policy and its effect on
economic conditions. The Fed generally tries to avoid
policy surprises, and FOMC members regularly
communicate their views on the future direction of
monetary policy to the public. The Fed describes monetary
policy as “data dependent,” meaning plans would be altered
if actual employment or inflation deviate from its forecast.
Data are volatile, however, and truly data-dependent
policymaking would lead to sudden shifts in policy. In
practice, the Fed likes to avoid surprises if possible, so
large-scale policy shifts are relatively infrequent.

The Fed’s Balance Sheet
Like a company, the Fed holds assets on its balance sheet
that are equally matched by the sum of its liabilities and
capital. The Fed’s assets are primarily Treasury securities,
mortgage-backed securities, loans it has made, repurchase
agreements (repos), and other assets acquired from
emergency programs. Its liabilities are primarily currency,
reverse repos, bank reserves held at the Fed, and Treasury
deposits at the Fed. When the Fed purchases assets or
makes loans, its balance sheet gets larger, which is matched
by growth in reverse repos and bank reserves. Capital
comes from stock issued to private banks that are “member
banks” and the funds in its surplus account. As discussed in
the next section, the Fed’s balance sheet grew significantly
from 2008 to 2014 and from 2020 to 2022 in response to
the financial crisis and the pandemic, respectively. Since
June 2022, the balance sheet has been gradually shrinking.
For more information, see CRS In Focus IF12147, The
Fed’s Balance Sheet and Quantitative Tightening.

Unconventional Tools at the
Zero Lower Bound
Twice in its history—during the 2008 financial crisis and
the COVID-19 pandemic—the Fed lowered the FFR target
range to 0%-0.25% (called the zero lower bound) in
response to unusually serious economic disruptions.
Because the zero lower bound prevented the Fed from
providing as much conventional stimulus as desired to
mitigate these crises, it turned to unconventional monetary
policy tools in an effort to reduce longer-term interest rates.
Under quantitative easing (QE), it purchased trillions of
dollars of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed
securities in an effort to directly lower their yield. Under
forward guidance, it pledged to keep the FFR low for an
extended period of time, with the hope that reducing
investor expectations of future short-term rates will reduce
long-term rates today. It also used large-scale repos,
equivalent to short-term loans, to directly pump more
liquidity into the financial system.
In addition, the Fed has responded to these crises by using
its lender-of-last-resort powers to establish temporary
emergency facilities to stabilize the financial system.

The Post-Crisis Policy Framework
After the 2008 financial crisis, the Fed changed how it
conducted monetary policy. The Fed now maintains the
FFR target primarily by setting the interest rate it pays
banks on reserves held at the Fed (IOR) and by using a
standing (i.e., on-demand) overnight reverse repo facility to
drain liquidity from the financial system. Unlike the FFR,

the Fed sets the IOR and the reverse repo rate directly. The
IOR and repo rate anchor the FFR because all three are
relatively substitutable short-term funding sources.
Before the crisis, monetary policy was conducted
differently. The Fed did not have authority to pay interest
on bank reserves until 2008, so it could not target the FFR
by setting the IOR. Instead, the New York Fed directly
intervened in the federal funds market through open market
operations that added or removed reserves from the federal
funds market. Open market operations could be conducted
by buying or selling Treasury securities but were typically
conducted through repos. (As noted above, the Fed still
purchases Treasury securities and uses repos, but it no
longer does so to target the FFR. Whereas previously the
Fed would offer the amount of repos needed to meet its
FFR target, market participants now choose the amount.)
Before the crisis, the Fed could target the FFR through
direct intervention in the federal funds market because
reserves were scarce—banks held only enough reserves to
slightly exceed the reserve requirements set by the Fed.
Now, banks hold trillions of dollars of reserves despite the
fact that the Fed eliminated reserve requirements in 2020.
The overall level of reserves is the result of Fed actions—
primarily QE—that have increased the Fed’s balance sheet
and are not a choice by banks.
After the Fed ended QE in 2014, it decided to maintain
abundant reserves instead of fully shrinking its balance
sheet and returning to its pre-crisis monetary framework.
With reserves so abundant, adding or removing reserves
could not raise the FFR above zero in the absence of IOR
and the reverse repo facility. In 2021, the Fed added a
standing repo lending facility to make it easier to keep the
FFR within its target. Currently, the top of the target range
is set equal to the rate for borrowing from the Fed through
the discount window and the standing repo facility, and the
bottom of the range is set equal to the rate for lending to the
Fed through the reverse repo facility.

The Money Supply and Inflation
Historically, money supply growth has been a predictor of
the inflation rate. The logic behind this relationship is that
inflation is caused by “too much money chasing too few
goods.” The money supply grew at historically high levels
during the pandemic but shrank more recently. The money
supply grew relatively rapidly during QE partly because of
rapid growth in the monetary base, which consists of bank
reserves and currency and is controlled by the Fed. Besides
the pandemic, money supply growth and inflation have not
moved together closely in recent decades. Although faster
money supply growth would typically cause inflation to
rise, all else equal, IOR gives the Fed a means to “tie up”
bank reserves so that they do not potentially cause inflation.

Congress and Monetary Policy
Congress has delegated responsibility for monetary policy
to the Fed but retains oversight responsibilities. For
example, statute requires the Fed to semiannually produce a
written report and testify on monetary policy to the House
Financial Services Committee and the Senate Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee.
Marc Labonte, Specialist in Macroeconomic Policy

https://crsreports.congress.gov

Introduction to U.S. Economy: Monetary Policy
IF11751

Disclaimer
This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should not be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyright protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permission of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.

https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF11751 · VERSION 10 · UPDATED

