Updated February 27, 2025

Introduction to U.S. Economy: Fiscal Policy
What Is Fiscal Policy?
Fiscal policy is the means by which the government adjusts
its budget balance through spending and revenue changes to
influence broader economic conditions. According to
mainstream economics, the government can affect the level
of economic activity—generally measured by gross
domestic product (GDP)—in the short term by changing its
levels of spending and tax revenue. This In Focus presents
an introduction to fiscal policy. For a more in-depth look at
fiscal policy, its effect on the economy, and its use by the
government, refer to CRS Report R45723, Fiscal Policy:
Economic Effects, by Lida R. Weinstock.

interest rates and investment, exchange rates and the trade
balance, and the rate of inflation. First, assuming no action
from the Federal Reserve, expansionary fiscal policy is
expected to result in rising interest rates, which puts
downward pressure on investment spending in the
economy. Second, it can lead to a strengthening U.S. dollar,
which results in a growing trade deficit. Third, it can lead to
accelerating inflation in the economy; although this was not
the case during the 2009-2020 expansion. All of these side
effects from expansionary fiscal policy tend to put
downward pressure on economic activity, and therefore
work against the original stimulus generated through
expansionary fiscal policy.

Fiscal policy is often characterized by its countercyclical or
procyclical nature. Countercyclical policy attempts to
counteract the business cycle by promoting growth through
expansionary policy during a recession and preventing
“overheating” through contractionary policy during an
expansion. Procyclical policy does the opposite and is
generally seen to be counterproductive, potentially
overheating the economy during expansions and further
dampening growth during recessions.

Expansionary fiscal policy’s ultimate effect on the economy
depends on the relative magnitude of these opposing forces.
In general, the increase in economic activity resulting from
expansionary fiscal policy tends to be greatest during a
recession, when the economy has more room to expand,
and the negative side effects are somewhat counteracted by
the recession itself, monetary policy, or both.

Expansionary Fiscal Policy
Recessions can have negative consequences for both
individuals and businesses. During a recession, aggregate
demand (overall spending) in the economy falls, which
generally results in slower wage growth, decreased
employment, lower business revenue, and lower business
investment.
As such, policymakers may want to intervene in the
economy when a recession occurs by implementing
expansionary fiscal policy to mitigate the decline in
aggregate demand. Expansionary fiscal policy—an increase
in government spending, a decrease in tax revenue, or a
combination of the two—is expected to temporarily spur
economic activity.
Increased government spending can take the form of both
purchases of goods and services by the government, which
directly increase economic activity, and transfers to
individuals, which indirectly increase economic activity as
individuals spend those funds. Decreased tax revenue via
tax cuts also indirectly increases aggregate demand in the
economy. For example, an individual income tax cut
increases the amount of disposable income available to
individuals, enabling them to purchase more goods and
services. Standard economic theory suggests that in the
short term, fiscal stimulus can lessen a recession’s negative
impacts or hasten a recovery.
Expansionary fiscal policy’s effectiveness may be limited
by its interaction with other economic processes, including

Contractionary Fiscal Policy
As the economy shifts from a recession and into an
expansion, broader economic conditions generally improve,
with falling unemployment and increasing wages and
private spending.
With improving economic conditions, policymakers may
choose to begin withdrawing fiscal stimulus by decreasing
the size of the deficit or potentially by applying
contractionary fiscal policy and running a budget surplus.
Contractionary fiscal policy—a decrease in government
spending, an increase in tax revenue, or a combination of
the two—is expected to temporarily slow economic
activity.
When the government raises individual income taxes, for
example, individuals have less disposable income and
generally decrease their spending on goods and services in
response. The decrease in spending temporarily reduces
aggregate demand for goods and services, slowing
economic growth temporarily. Alternatively, when the
government reduces spending, it reduces aggregate demand
in the economy, which again temporarily slows economic
growth. As such, aggregate demand is expected to decrease
in the short term when the government implements
contractionary fiscal policy, regardless of the mix of fiscal
policy choices.
However, contractionary fiscal policy has the same caveats
as expansionary fiscal policy, except in reverse.
Contractionary fiscal policy is expected to reduce interest
rates, leading to additional investment, and weaken the U.S.

https://crsreports.congress.gov

Introduction to U.S. Economy: Fiscal Policy

dollar, leading to more U.S. exports and fewer imports and
a slowing of inflation. All of these side effects tend to spur
additional economic activity, partly offsetting the decline in
economic activity resulting from contractionary fiscal
policy.
Long-Term Fiscal Policy Considerations
Persistently applying fiscal stimulus can negatively affect
the economy through three main avenues. First, persistent,
large budget deficits can result in a rising debt-to-GDP ratio
and lead to an unsustainable level of debt. A rising debt-toGDP ratio can be problematic if the perceived or real risk of
the government defaulting on that debt begins to rise. As
the perceived risk of default begins to increase, investors
will demand higher interest rates to compensate themselves.
Second, persistent fiscal stimulus—particularly during
economic expansions—can limit long-term economic
growth by crowding out private investment, which is an
important determinant of the economy’s long-term size.
Third, rising public debt will require a gradually increasing
portion of the federal budget to be directed toward interest
payments on the debt, potentially crowding out other policy
priorities.
Monetary Policy
Fiscal policy is not the only policy lever available if the
government wishes to influence broader economic
conditions. The Federal Reserve implements monetary
policy by influencing interest rates throughout the
economy. The Federal Reserve can spur economic activity
by lowering interest rates and slow economic activity by
doing the opposite. Monetary policy can also be used in
conjunction with fiscal policy to limit the undesirable
aspects of expansionary or contractionary fiscal policy. For
example, expansionary fiscal policy tends to have the
undesirable effect of increasing interest rates; however, the
Federal Reserve could combat this by pushing interest rates
down through monetary policy. Monetary policy is set
independently of fiscal policy, so it is also possible for the
Federal Reserve to pursue monetary policy that neutralizes
fiscal policy’s effects. For a more detailed discussion
regarding monetary policy, refer to CRS Report R48390,
Federal Reserve: Policy Issues in the 119th Congress, by
Marc Labonte.

Fiscal Policy Stance
As shown in Figure 1, the federal government has
generally been running a budget deficit for much of the past
50 years—save for two short periods in the 1960s and
1990s. This suggests that the federal government has been
applying some level of fiscal stimulus to the economy for
much of the previous several decades, although the amount
of stimulus has increased and decreased over time.
Examining the overall budget deficit to judge the level of
fiscal stimulus can be misleading, as the levels of federal
spending and revenue differ over time due to changes in the
state of the economy, in addition to deliberate choices made
each year by Congress. During economic expansions, tax
revenue tends to increase and spending tends to decrease
automatically, as rising incomes and employment result in
greater individual and corporate income tax revenues.
Federal spending on income support programs, such as food

stamps and unemployment insurance, tends to fall during
economic expansions as fewer people need financial
assistance and file unemployment claims. The combination
of rising tax revenue and falling federal spending tends to
improve the government’s budget deficit. The opposite is
true during recessions, when federal spending rises and
revenue shrinks. These cyclical fluctuations in revenue and
spending are often referred to as automatic stabilizers.
Therefore, when examining fiscal policy, it is often
beneficial to estimate the budget deficit excluding these
automatic stabilizers, referred to as the structural deficit, to
get a sense of the affirmative fiscal policy decisions made
each year by Congress.
Figure 1. Federal Budget Deficit/Surplus
FY1965-FY2023

Sources: National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) and
Congressional Budget Office.
Notes: Gray bars denote recessions as determined by NBER. CBO
calculates automatic stabilizers as a percentage of potential GDP.

As shown in Figure 1, budget deficits tend to increase
during and shortly after recessions (denoted by gray bars)
as policymakers attempt to buoy the economy by applying
fiscal stimulus. The budget deficit then tends to shrink as
the economy enters into recovery and fiscal stimulus is less
necessary to support economic growth. However, in recent
years, the federal budget has bucked this trend. After the
structural deficit peaked in FY2009 at roughly 7.5% of
GDP, it declined through FY2014, falling to about 2.0% of
GDP. Beginning in FY2016, despite relatively strong
economic conditions, the structural deficit started to rise
again, nearing 5.0% of GDP in FY2019.
As a result of unprecedented stimulus enacted during the
COVID-19 pandemic, in FY2020, the deficit totaled $3.1
trillion, equal to 14.9% of GDP—the highest share of GDP
since the end of World War II. The deficit has decreased as
the economy recovered, but it remains relatively high by
historical comparison. The structural deficit was 6.3% in
FY2023, compared to an annual average of 3.2% over the
FY1965-FY2023 period.
(Note: This In Focus was originally authored by Jeffrey
Stupak, former CRS Analyst in Macroeconomic Policy.)
Lida R. Weinstock, Analyst in Macroeconomic Policy

https://crsreports.congress.gov

IF11253

Introduction to U.S. Economy: Fiscal Policy

Disclaimer
This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should not be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyright protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permission of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.

https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF11253 · VERSION 10 · UPDATED

