Updated January 5, 2023

Introduction to U.S. Economy: Inflation
What Is Inflation?
Inflation is defined as a general increase in the price of
goods and services across the economy, or, in other words,
a general decrease in the value of money. Conversely,
deflation is a general decrease in the price of goods and
services across the economy, or a general increase in the
value of money.
As inflation occurs, individuals can purchase fewer goods
and services with the same amount of money. For this
reason, an individual would need about $326 in 2021 to
purchase the same amount of goods and services as $100
would have purchased in 1980. Measures of inflation are
used to adjust money figures to keep purchasing power
constant over time, allowing for more accurate comparisons
across disparate time periods. Monetary figures that have
been adjusted for inflation are referred to as real, and noninflation-adjusted figures are referred to as nominal.

inflation includes the full set of goods and services within
the basket of goods, whereas core inflation excludes energy
and food prices from the basket of goods. Core inflation is
often used by researchers in place of headline inflation due
to the volatile nature of the price of food and energy.
Headline inflation can provide a more accurate sense of the
price changes actually faced by individuals.
Figure 1 Annual Inflation Rate
January 1960 to November 2022

Measuring Inflation
The rate of inflation can be measured by observing changes
in the average price of a consistent set of goods and
services, often referred to as a market basket. Inflation is
generally measured using a price index, such as the
Consumer Price Index (CPI). A price index is constructed
by dividing the price of a market basket in a given year by
the price of the same basket of goods in a base year. The
rate of inflation is then measured by calculating the
percentage change in the price index across different
periods. For example, the CPI was about 277 in October
2021 and about 298 in October 2022, which amounts to an
inflation rate of about 7.8% over this 12-month period.
Alternative Measures of Inflation
Alternative price indices will use different goods within
their market baskets and are generally used for different
purposes. For example, the CPI includes consumer goods
and services typically purchased by households, which is
often used to adjust household incomes for inflation over
time. By contrast, the gross domestic product (GDP)
deflator, which is generally used to adjust GDP for inflation
over time, measures inflation for all of the final goods and
services produced in the United States. There are a number
of additional measures of inflation, including the Producer
Price Index, Employment Cost Index, Personal
Consumption Expenditures Index, and Import/Export Price
Index. Different inflation measures are calculated
differently. For example, the CPI uses a (mostly) fixed
basket of goods and services, whereas the GDP deflator
allows the composition of its market basket to change with
spending patterns from period to period.
Additionally, within a specific price index, researchers
often make separate calculations for so-called headline
inflation and core inflation, as seen in Figure 1. Headline

Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis.
Notes: Annual percentage change as measured by Personal
Consumption Expenditures Index.

Complications in Measuring Inflation
The fundamental concept behind inflation is to measure
changes in the price of the same goods and services over
time. In reality, this is nearly impossible for two reasons.
First, the quality of goods and services change over time.
As such, some portion of increasing prices over time is due
to improvements in quality rather than inflation. Second,
new products are introduced into the marketplace over time
that are fundamentally different than any previously
available products and are only slowly incorporated into
price indices with fixed baskets. Statistical agencies try to
adjust data to account for these factors, because, if these
complications are not correctly accounted for, measured
inflation would be inaccurate and most likely overstated.

Causes of Inflation
Inflation is largely the result of two different phenomena,
which are often referred to as demand-pull and cost-push
inflation. Demand-pull inflation occurs when demand for
goods and services within the economy exceeds the
economy’s capacity to produce goods and services. As
demand exceeds supply within the economy—“too much
money chasing too few goods”—there is upward pressure
placed on prices, resulting in rising inflation.
Cost-push inflation occurs when the price of input goods
and services increases. The classic example of cost-push
inflation is the result of an oil shock, which sharply

https://crsreports.congress.gov

Introduction to U.S. Economy: Inflation

decreases the supply of oil and other petroleum products.
The decrease in oil supplies increases the price of oil and
petroleum products. Petroleum products are an input good
for a significant portion of goods and services across the
economy, and as the price of this important input good
increases, so does the price of the final goods and services,
resulting in inflation. Cost-push inflation results in only a
temporary increase in inflation unless accommodated by
monetary policy.
Changes in inflation expectations can also cause changes in
actual inflation. Individuals form expectations around the
future rate of inflation and incorporate those expectations
when setting prices at the firm level or when bargaining for
wages as a worker. For example, if the general consensus is
that prices will increase 2% in the next year, businesses will
want to increase prices by at least 2%, and workers will
want at least a 2% raise.

Inflation’s Impact on the Economy
Inflation tends to interfere with pricing mechanisms in the
economy, resulting in individuals and businesses making
less than optimal spending, saving, and investment
decisions. Additionally, in the presence of inflation,
economic actors often engage in actions to protect
themselves from the negative impacts of inflation, diverting
resources from other more productive activities.
Ultimately, these inefficient decisions reduce incomes,
economic growth, and living standards. For this reason, it is
generally accepted that inflation should be kept low to
minimize these distortions in the economy. Some would
argue that an inflation rate of zero is optimal. However, a
target of zero inflation makes a period of accidental
deflation more likely, and deflation is thought to be even
more costly than inflation, as it can be associated with
recessionary conditions. In an effort to balance these two
risks, policymakers, including the Federal Reserve, often
target a positive but low inflation rate, generally around
2%, which reduces inefficiencies within the economy while
protecting against deflation.

The Federal Reserve and Inflation
The Federal Reserve has been charged with promoting
stable prices by statute since the late 1970s, largely as a
result of the volatile and exceptionally high inflation
experienced in the years preceding the law, as shown in
Figure 1. Beginning in 2012, the Federal Reserve began
explicitly targeting a long-run inflation rate of 2%. In 2020,
the Federal Reserve amended this strategy slightly to target
an average rate of 2%. The Federal Reserve generally uses
its ability to impact short-term interest rates to combat
demand-pull and cost-push inflation in an effort to decrease
the volatility of inflation and keep inflation close to its
target rate.
Beginning in the 1980s, the rate of core inflation, which
excludes energy and food prices, started to decrease, as did
the volatility seen in the measure. Beginning in the late
1990s, the inflation rate remained relatively close to 2%,
and large swings in inflation mostly disappeared. The
moderation of inflation largely seen between the 1970s and
the current high inflation has largely been attributed to the

actions undertaken by the Federal Reserve as part of its
mandate to promote stable prices.
In the time between the financial crisis and the COVID-19
pandemic, inflation ran below 2% fairly consistently,
despite an 11-year economic expansion that ended in 2020
and several notable periods of quantitative easing by the
Federal Reserve. However, inflation started rising in March
2021 and has been high since then. In response to this high
inflation, the Federal Reserve has raised the federal funds
rate consistently beginning in March 2022, tapered asset
purchases, and begun shrinking the balance sheet. The Fed
has indicated that it will continue tightening monetary
policy until inflation comes down. For more information
about inflation since COVID-19, see CRS Report R47273,
Inflation in the U.S. Economy: Causes and Policy Options,
by Marc Labonte and Lida R. Weinstock.

Adjusting for Inflation
Comparing figures in real terms is often beneficial to
observe actual changes in purchasing power over time
rather than changes in the number of dollars.
Figure 2. How to Adjust for Inflation

Source: CRS.

To adjust nominal figures for inflation, multiply the
nominal figure by the ratio of the price index value in the
target year to the price index value in the base year, as
shown in Figure 2. For example, median household income
in 1990 (the base year) was $29,943 in nominal terms. To
determine the equivalent income in terms of purchasing
power for 2019 (the target year) using CPI, multiply
$29,943 by the ratio of CPI in 2019 (256) to the CPI in
1990 (131), which comes out to about $58,515.
As discussed previously, there are a number of different
price indices, and within those indices more specific
deflators are available to make inflation adjustments. It is
important to use the most relevant index for the subject
being researched. For example, when looking at corporate
revenues in the United States, it would be advisable to use
the Producer Price Index, which uses a market basket
consisting of the price of goods and services sold by
domestic producers, as opposed to the CPI, which is
designed to reflect the goods and services purchased by the
typical household.

Resources
The Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Bureau of Economic
Analysis both create various price indices, which are
available at http://www.bls.gov/bls/inflation.htm and
https://www.bea.gov/data/prices-inflation, respectively.
(Note: This In Focus was originally authored by Jeffrey
Stupak, former CRS Analyst in Macroeconomic Policy.)
Lida R. Weinstock, Analyst Macroeconomic Policy

https://crsreports.congress.gov

IF10477

Introduction to U.S. Economy: Inflation

Disclaimer
This document was prepared by the Congressional Research Service (CRS). CRS serves as nonpartisan shared staff to
congressional committees and Members of Congress. It operates solely at the behest of and under the direction of Congress.
Information in a CRS Report should not be relied upon for purposes other than public understanding of information that has
been provided by CRS to Members of Congress in connection with CRS’s institutional role. CRS Reports, as a work of the
United States Government, are not subject to copyright protection in the United States. Any CRS Report may be
reproduced and distributed in its entirety without permission from CRS. However, as a CRS Report may include
copyrighted images or material from a third party, you may need to obtain the permission of the copyright holder if you
wish to copy or otherwise use copyrighted material.

https://crsreports.congress.gov | IF10477 · VERSION 11 · UPDATED

