
        Federal Reserve Board - Disclaimer
        Skip to main content
An official website of the United States Government
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (LockLocked padlock icon) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
        Back to Home
        Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
                Stay Connected
                  Federal Reserve Facebook Page
                  Federal Reserve Instagram Page
                  Federal Reserve YouTube Page
                  Federal Reserve Flickr Page
                  Federal Reserve LinkedIn Page
                  Federal Reserve Threads Page
                  Federal Reserve X Page
                  Federal Reserve Bluesky Page
                  Subscribe to RSS
                  Subscribe to Email
                Recent Postings
                Calendar
                Publications
                Site Map
                A-Z index
                Careers
                FAQs
                Videos
                Contact
                Search
                        Submit Search Button
                Advanced
                Toggle Dropdown Menu
            Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
                The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States, provides
          the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial
          system.
            Main Menu Toggle Button
        Sections
            Search Toggle Button
                Search
                    Search Submit Button
                    Submit
                            Home
                                        Disclaimer 
Chapters
 -->
Website Linking Policies
DisclaimerVulnerability Disclosure PolicyIQ GuidelinesFiling an Information Correction RequestRelease
                    PLEASE READ THIS NOTICE BEFORE PROCEEDING
You are accessing a U.S. government website. To intentionally cause damage to it or to any Federal Reserve electronic facility or data through the knowing transmission of any program, information, code, or command is unlawful.
You have no reasonable expectation of privacy regarding communications or data transiting or stored, or activity conducted on this website. This website and related equipment are subject to monitoring. At any time, and for any lawful government purpose, the Board may monitor, intercept, and search any communication or data transiting or stored on this website. Information regarding users may be obtained and disclosed to authorized personnel, including law enforcement authorities, for official government purposes. Access to or use of this website constitutes consent to these terms.
General Disclaimer
The Federal Reserve Board (Board) takes reasonable measures to ensure the quality of the data and other information produced by it or on its behalf that are available on this website. However, the Board makes no warranty, express or implied, nor assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, correctness, or completeness of any information that is available through this website nor represents that its use would not infringe on privately owned rights.
Reference to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacture, or otherwise does not constitute an endorsement, a recommendation, or a favoring by the U.S. government or the Board.
Copyright/trademark
Unless otherwise indicated, information on Board's website is in the public domain and may be copied and distributed without permission. Please cite to the Board as the source of the information. For any photo, graphic, or other material that is identified as being associated with a non-Board (such as materials with a copyright or trademark) permission to copy and distribute such photo, graphic, or material must be obtained from the non-Board source.
The Board permits hyperlinking to the Board's website from other websites. This permission extends only to a hyperlink, however, and does not include authority to engage in any other activities such as the "framing" of the Board's website on another website (e.g., by creating a part of another website that independently loads the Board's website on that other webpage).
Seals/Logos
The use of the Board seals, logos and other official insignia is protected by federal law and may not be used or reproduced without the Board's written permission. In addition, federal law (18 U.S.C. § 709) prohibits the unauthorized use of the words 'Federal Reserve" or the sign or symbol of the Board or Federal Reserve in a manner calculated to convey the impression that a nonmember bank, banking association, firm or partnership is a member of the Federal Reserve System.
Disclaimer regarding Non-Board Information
For convenience and informational purposes only, the Federal Reserve website provides links to non-government websites. These sites may contain information that is copyrighted with restrictions on reuse. Permission to use copyrighted materials must be obtained from the original source and cannot be obtained from the Board. The Board is not responsible for the content of external websites linked to or referenced from the Federal Reserve web server. The Board neither endorses the information, content, presentation, or accuracy nor makes any warranty, express or implied, regarding these external websites. Users should be aware that when they select a link on the Board's website to an external website, they are leaving the Board's site.
Disclaimer for FRB U.S. Model and the Estimated Dynamic Optimization (EDO) Model
This disclaimer applies to the FRB U.S. Model and the Estimated Dynamic Optimization (EDO) Model (the Models).
While the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Board) has verified the accuracy of the Models in connection with the Board's use in the Board's publications, the Models should be used by others only with appropriate caution. The Board is providing the Models, including the numerical data and formulas contained in the Models, solely for the purpose of illustrating the modelling framework for projecting possible outcomes under different scenarios. The Board may periodically publish updates to the Models on its website at www.federalreserve.gov.
As the User, you assume the entire risk related to your use of the Models, including your use of any updates to the Models. The Board is providing the Models "as is" and the Board disclaims any all warranties, express or implied, including without limitation any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purposes. In no event will the Board be liable to you or to any third party for any direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary damages or lost profit related to the Models, including, but not limited to, the installation or attempt to install the Models, the use or inability to use the Models, the use of data embodied in or obtained from the Models, or the use of any input data, documentation or other materials accompanying the Models.
Therefore, Users should rely on the User's own inquiries as to the accuracy and relevance of the data incorporated into or applicable to the Models; not use the Models, including the output, as the basis for making any decision or embarking on any course of action; and be aware that the data contained in the Models and the output of the Models should not be regarded as representative of any current data or forecasts of what will happen under a given set of conditions. Users may not use or modify the Models and then present them as official government material.
Disclaimer for Interactive Data Visualizations
This disclaimer applies to the Interactive Data Visualizations available for the Financial Accounts of the United States – Z.1 and Enhanced Financial Accounts (EFA) – as well as the Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) and the Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking (SHED), which are the official releases.
The Interactive Data Visualizations are provided solely to assist Users with a visual representation of the data and do not modify or otherwise change the official releases. Content within the Interactive Data Visualizations will be updated only after the publication of the Financial Accounts of the United States – Z.1 and EFA releases, the SCF, and the SHED. Any corrections to data will be published to the official release before it is reflected in the corresponding Interactive Data Visualizations. Should any discrepancy exist between the data contained in the official release and the Interactive Data Visualizations, Users should consult the official release for the correct data.
To access Interactive Data Visualizations, Users must have JavaScript enabled within their browsers.
Disclaimer for Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) and Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) APIs
	BEA: These data are BEA data. Data were accessed and retrieved using the BEA API. This product uses the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) Data API but is not endorsed or certified by BEA.
	BLS: These data are BLS data. Data were accessed and retrieved using the BLS API. BLS.gov cannot vouch for the data or analyses derived from these data after the data have been retrieved from BLS.gov.
	Data are updated generally at 8:30 a.m. on the day of release. However, there may be a lag between when updated BEA or BLS data are released, and when the data are updated on the Board's website.
            Back to Top
                Last Update:
                    August 02, 2024
                        Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
                            About the Fed
News & Events
Monetary Policy
Supervision & Regulation
Financial Stability
Payment Systems
Economic Research
Data
Consumers & Communities
Connect with the Board
                        Tools and Information
                             Contact
                            Publications
                            Freedom of Information (FOIA)
                            Office of Inspector General
                            Budget & Performance | Audit
                            No FEAR Act
                            Español
                            Website Policies  | Privacy Program
                            Accessibility
                            Stay Connected
            Federal Reserve Facebook Page
            Federal Reserve Instagram Page
            Federal Reserve YouTube Page
            Federal Reserve Flickr Page
            Federal Reserve LinkedIn Page
            Federal Reserve Threads Page
            Link to Federal Reserve X Page
            Link to Federal Reserve Bluesky Page
            Subscribe to RSS
            Subscribe to Email
                        Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
                        20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551
         -->
 