§ 248.10

17 CFR Ch. II (4–1–25 Edition)

(i) Hand-deliver a printed copy of the
notice to the customer;
(ii) Mail a printed copy of the notice
to the last known address of the customer; or
(iii) Make your current privacy notice available on a web site (or a link
to another web site) for the customer
who obtains a financial product or
service electronically and agrees to receive the notice at the web site.
(f) Joint notice with other financial institutions. You may provide a joint notice from you and one or more of your
affiliates or other financial institutions, as identified in the notice, as
long as the notice is accurate with respect to you and the other institutions.
(g) Joint relationships. If two or more
consumers jointly obtain a financial
product or service from you, you may
satisfy the initial, annual, and revised
notice requirements of paragraph (a) of
this section by providing one notice to
those consumers jointly.
LIMITS ON DISCLOSURES
§ 248.10 Limits on disclosure of nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties.
(a)(1) Conditions for disclosure. Except
as otherwise authorized in this subpart, you may not, directly or through
any affiliate, disclose any nonpublic
personal information about a consumer
to a nonaffiliated third party unless:
(i) You have provided to the consumer an initial notice as required
under § 248.4;
(ii) You have provided to the consumer an opt out notice as required in
§ 248.7;
(iii) You have given the consumer a
reasonable opportunity, before you disclose the information to the nonaffiliated third party, to opt out of the
disclosure; and
(iv) The consumer does not opt out.
(2) Opt out definition. Opt out means a
direction by the consumer that you not
disclose nonpublic personal information about that consumer to a nonaffiliated third party, other than as
permitted by §§ 248.13, 248.14, and 248.15.
(3) Examples of reasonable opportunity
to opt out. You provide a consumer with
a reasonable opportunity to opt out if:
(i) By mail. You mail the notices required in paragraph (a)(1) of this sec-

tion to the consumer and allow the
consumer to opt out by mailing a form,
calling a toll-free telephone number, or
any other reasonable means within 30
days after the date you mailed the notices.
(ii) By electronic means. A customer
opens an on-line account with you and
agrees to receive the notices required
in paragraph (a)(1) of this section electronically, and you allow the customer
to opt out by any reasonable means
within 30 days after the date that the
customer acknowledges receipt of the
notices in conjunction with opening
the account.
(iii) Isolated transaction with consumer. For an isolated transaction,
such as the provision of brokerage
services to a consumer as an accommodation, you provide the consumer with
a reasonable opportunity to opt out if
you provide the notices required in
paragraph (a)(1) of this section at the
time of the transaction and request
that the consumer decide, as a necessary part of the transaction, whether
to opt out before completing the transaction.
(b) Application of opt out to all consumers and all nonpublic personal information. (1) You must comply with this
section, regardless of whether you and
the consumer have established a customer relationship.
(2) Unless you comply with this section, you may not, directly or through
any affiliate, disclose any nonpublic
personal information about a consumer
that you have collected, regardless of
whether you collected it before or after
receiving the direction to opt out from
the consumer.
(c) Partial opt out. You may allow a
consumer to select certain nonpublic
personal information or certain nonaffiliated third parties with respect to
which the consumer wishes to opt out.
§ 248.11 Limits on redisclosure
reuse of information.

and

(a)(1) Information you receive under an
exception. If you receive nonpublic personal information from a nonaffiliated
financial institution under an exception in § 248.14 or § 248.15, your disclosure and use of that information is limited as follows:

246

