§ 1010.440

31 CFR Ch. X (7–1–25 Edition)

are required to be retained by this
chapter, then such a record shall be
prepared in writing by the financial institution.
(c) The rules and regulations issued
by the Internal Revenue Service under
26 U.S.C. 6109 determine what constitutes a taxpayer identification number and whose number shall be obtained in the case of an account maintained by one or more persons.
(d) All records that are required to be
retained by this chapter shall be retained for a period of five years.
Records or reports required to be kept
pursuant to an order issued under
§ 1010.370 of this chapter shall be retained for the period of time specified
in such order, not to exceed five years.
All such records shall be filed or stored
in such a way as to be accessible within
a reasonable period of time, taking
into consideration the nature of the
record, and the amount of time expired
since the record was made.
[75 FR 65812, Oct. 26, 2010, as amended at 81
FR 76864, Nov. 4, 2016]

§ 1010.440 Person outside the United
States.
For the purposes of this chapter, a
remittance or transfer of funds, or of
currency, other monetary instruments,
checks, investment securities, or credit
to the domestic account of a person
whose address is known by the person
making the remittance or transfer, to
be outside the United States, shall be
deemed to be a remittance or transfer
to a person outside the United States,
except that, unless otherwise directed
by the Secretary, this section shall not
apply to a transaction on the books of
a domestic financial institution involving the account of a customer of such
institution whose address is within approximately 50 miles of the location of
the institution, or who is known to be
temporarily outside the United States.

skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR

Subpart E—Special Information
Sharing Procedures To Deter
Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity
§ 1010.500 General.
Sections 1010.505 through 1010.540 of
this subpart E were issued pursuant to

the requirements of section 314 of the
USA PATRIOT Act. Each financial institution (as defined in 31 U.S.C.
5312(a)(2) or (c)(1)) should refer to its
chapter X part for any additional special information sharing procedures.
§ 1010.505 Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart E, the
following definitions apply:
(a) Account means a formal banking
or business relationship established to
provide regular services, dealings, and
other financial transactions, and includes, but is not limited to, a demand
deposit, savings deposit, or other transaction or asset account and a credit account or other extension of credit.
(b) Money laundering means an activity criminalized by 18 U.S.C. 1956 or
1957, or an activity that would be
criminalized by 18 U.S.C. 1956 or 1957 if
it occurred in the United States.
(c) Terrorist activity means an act of
domestic terrorism or international
terrorism as those terms are defined in
18 U.S.C. 2331.
(d) Transaction. (1) Except as provided
in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the
term ‘‘transaction’’ shall have the
same
meaning
as
provided
in
§ 1010.100(bbb).
(2) For purposes of § 1010.520, a transaction shall not mean any transaction
conducted through an account.
§ 1010.520 Information
sharing
between government agencies and financial institutions.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this
section:
(1) Financial institution means any financial institution described in 31
U.S.C. 5312(a)(2).
(2) Law enforcement agency means a
Federal, State, local, or foreign law enforcement agency with criminal investigative authority, provided that in the
case of a foreign law enforcement agency, such agency is from a jurisdiction
that is a party to a treaty that provides, or in the determination of
FinCEN is from a jurisdiction that otherwise allows, law enforcement agencies in the United States reciprocal access to information comparable to that
obtained under this section.
(b) Information requests based on credible evidence concerning terrorist activity

1152

VerDate Sep<11>2014

07:58 Sep 25, 2025

Jkt 265133

PO 00000

Frm 01162

Fmt 8010

Sfmt 8010

Y:\SGML\265133.XXX

265133

skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR

Financial Crimes Enforc. Network, Treas.
or money laundering—(1) In general. A
law enforcement agency investigating
terrorist activity or money laundering
may request that FinCEN solicit, on
the investigating agency’s behalf, certain information from a financial institution or a group of financial institutions. When submitting such a request
to FinCEN, the law enforcement agency shall provide FinCEN with a written
certification, in such form and manner
as FinCEN may prescribe. At a minimum, such certification must: State
that each individual, entity, or organization about which the law enforcement agency is seeking information is
engaged in, or is reasonably suspected
based on credible evidence of engaging
in, terrorist activity or money laundering; include enough specific identifiers, such as date of birth, address, and
social security number, that would permit a financial institution to differentiate between common or similar
names; and identify one person at the
agency who can be contacted with any
questions relating to its request. Upon
receiving the requisite certification
from the requesting law enforcement
agency, FinCEN may require any financial institution to search its
records to determine whether the financial institution maintains or has
maintained accounts for, or has engaged in transactions with, any specified individual, entity, or organization.
(2) Requests from FinCEN. FinCEN
may solicit, on its own behalf and on
behalf of appropriate components of
the Department of the Treasury,
whether a financial institution or a
group of financial institutions maintains or has maintained accounts for,
or has engaged in transactions with,
any specified individual, entity, or organization. Before an information request under this section is made to a financial institution, FinCEN or the appropriate Treasury component shall
certify in writing in the same manner
as a requesting law enforcement agency that each individual, entity or organization about which FinCEN or the
appropriate Treasury component is
seeking information is engaged in, or is
reasonably suspected based on credible
evidence of engaging in, terrorist activity or money laundering. The certification also must include enough

§ 1010.520
specific identifiers, such as date of
birth, address, and social security number, that would permit a financial institution to differentiate between common or similar names, and identify one
person at FinCEN or the appropriate
Treasury component who can be contacted with any questions relating to
its request.
(3) Obligations of a financial institution
receiving an information request—(i)
Record search. Upon receiving an information request from FinCEN under
this section, a financial institution
shall expeditiously search its records
to determine whether it maintains or
has maintained any account for, or has
engaged in any transaction with, each
individual, entity, or organization
named in FinCEN’s request. A financial
institution may contact the law enforcement agency, FinCEN or requesting Treasury component representative, or U.S. law enforcement attaché
in the case of a request by a foreign
law enforcement agency, which has
been named in the information request
provided to the institution by FinCEN
with any questions relating to the
scope or terms of the request. Except
as otherwise provided in the information request, a financial institution
shall only be required to search its
records for:
(A) Any current account maintained
for a named suspect;
(B) Any account maintained for a
named suspect during the preceding
twelve months; and
(C) Any transaction, as defined by
§ 1010.505(d), conducted by or on behalf
of a named suspect, or any transmittal
of funds conducted in which a named
suspect was either the transmittor or
the recipient, during the preceding six
months that is required under law or
regulation to be recorded by the financial institution or is recorded and
maintained electronically by the institution.
(ii) Report to FinCEN. If a financial
institution identifies an account or
transaction identified with any individual, entity, or organization named
in a request from FinCEN, it shall report to FinCEN, in the manner and in
the time frame specified in FinCEN’s
request, the following information:

1153

VerDate Sep<11>2014

07:58 Sep 25, 2025

Jkt 265133

PO 00000

Frm 01163

Fmt 8010

Sfmt 8010

Y:\SGML\265133.XXX

265133

skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR

§ 1010.520

31 CFR Ch. X (7–1–25 Edition)

(A) The name of such individual, entity, or organization;
(B) The number of each such account,
or in the case of a transaction, the date
and type of each such transaction; and
(C) Any Social Security number, taxpayer identification number, passport
number, date of birth, address, or other
similar identifying information provided by the individual, entity, or organization when each such account was
opened or each such transaction was
conducted.
(iii) Designation of contact person.
Upon receiving an information request
under this section, a financial institution shall designate one person to be
the point of contact at the institution
regarding the request and to receive
similar requests for information from
FinCEN in the future. When requested
by FinCEN, a financial institution
shall provide FinCEN with the name,
title, mailing address, e-mail address,
telephone number, and facsimile number of such person, in such manner as
FinCEN may prescribe. A financial institution that has provided FinCEN
with
contact
information
must
promptly notify FinCEN of any
changes to such information.
(iv) Use and security of information request. (A) A financial institution shall
not use information provided by
FinCEN pursuant to this section for
any purpose other than:
(1) Reporting to FinCEN as provided
in this section;
(2) Determining whether to establish
or maintain an account, or to engage
in a transaction; or
(3) Assisting the financial institution
in complying with any requirement of
this chapter.
(B)(1) A financial institution shall
not disclose to any person, other than
FinCEN or the requesting Treasury
component, the law enforcement agency on whose behalf FinCEN is requesting information, or U.S. law enforcement attaché in the case of a request
by a foreign law enforcement agency,
which has been named in the information request, the fact that FinCEN has
requested or has obtained information
under this section, except to the extent
necessary to comply with such an information request.

(2)
Notwithstanding
paragraph
(b)(3)(iv)(B)(1) of this section, a financial institution authorized to share information under § 1010.540 may share
information concerning an individual,
entity, or organization named in a request from FinCEN in accordance with
the requirements of such section. However, such sharing shall not disclose
the fact that FinCEN has requested information concerning such individual,
entity, or organization.
(C) Each financial institution shall
maintain adequate procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of
requests from FinCEN for information
under this section. The requirements of
this paragraph (b)(3)(iv)(C) shall be
deemed satisfied to the extent that a
financial institution applies to such information procedures that the institution has established to satisfy the requirements of section 501 of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C.
6801), and applicable regulations issued
thereunder, with regard to the protection of its customers’ nonpublic personal information.
(v) No other action required. Nothing
in this section shall be construed to require a financial institution to take
any action, or to decline to take any
action, with respect to an account established for, or a transaction engaged
in with, an individual, entity, or organization named in a request from
FinCEN, or to decline to establish an
account for, or to engage in a transaction with, any such individual, entity, or organization. Except as otherwise provided in an information request under this section, such a request
shall not require a financial institution
to report on future account opening activity or transactions or to treat a suspect list received under this section as
a government list for purposes of section 326 of Public Law 107–56.
(4) Relation to the Right to Financial
Privacy Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley
Act. The information that a financial
institution is required to report pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section is information required to be reported in accordance with a Federal
statute or rule promulgated thereunder, for purposes of subsection

1154

VerDate Sep<11>2014

07:58 Sep 25, 2025

Jkt 265133

PO 00000

Frm 01164

Fmt 8010

Sfmt 8010

Y:\SGML\265133.XXX

265133

Financial Crimes Enforc. Network, Treas.
3413(d) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act (12 U.S.C. 3413(d)) and subsection 502(e)(8) of the Gramm-LeachBliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6802(e)(8)).
(5) No effect on law enforcement or regulatory investigations. Nothing in this
subpart affects the authority of a Federal, State, or local law enforcement
agency or officer, or FinCEN or another component of the Department of
the Treasury, to obtain information directly from a financial institution.
§ 1010.530

[Reserved]

skersey on DSK4WB1RN3PROD with CFR

§ 1010.540 Voluntary information sharing among financial institutions.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this
section:
(1) Financial institution. (i) Except as
provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this
section, the term ‘‘financial institution’’ means any financial institution
described in 31 U.S.C. 5312(a)(2) that is
required under this chapter to establish and maintain an anti-money laundering program, or is treated under
this chapter as having satisfied the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(h)(1).
(ii) For purposes of this section, a financial institution shall not mean any
institution included within a class of
financial institutions that FinCEN has
designated as ineligible to share information under this section.
(2) Association of financial institutions
means a group or organization the
membership of which is comprised entirely of financial institutions as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Voluntary information sharing
among financial institutions—(1) In general. Subject to paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3),
and (b)(4) of this section, a financial institution or an association of financial
institutions may, under the protection
of the safe harbor from liability described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, transmit, receive, or otherwise
share information with any other financial institution or association of financial institutions regarding individuals, entities, organizations, and countries for purposes of identifying and,
where appropriate, reporting activities
that the financial institution or association suspects may involve possible
terrorist activity or money laundering.

§ 1010.540
(2) Notice requirement. A financial institution or association of financial institutions that intends to share information as described in paragraph (b)(1)
of this section shall submit to FinCEN
a notice described on FinCEN’s Internet Web site, http://www.fincen.gov.
Each notice provided pursuant to this
paragraph (b)(2) shall be effective for
the one year period beginning on the
date of the notice. In order to continue
to engage in the sharing of information
after the end of the one year period, a
financial institution or association of
financial institutions must submit a
new notice. Completed notices may be
submitted to FinCEN by accessing
FinCEN’s Internet Web site, http://
www.fincen.gov., and entering the appropriate information as directed, or, if
a financial institution does not have
Internet access, by mail to: FinCEN,
P.O. Box 39, Vienna, VA 22183.
(3) Verification requirement. Prior to
sharing information as described in
paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a financial institution or an association of financial institutions must take reasonable steps to verify that the other financial institution or association of financial institutions with which it intends to share information has submitted to FinCEN the notice required
by paragraph (b)(2) of this section. A financial institution or an association of
financial institutions may satisfy this
paragraph (b)(3) by confirming that the
other financial institution or association of financial institutions appears
on a list that FinCEN will periodically
make available to financial institutions or associations of financial institutions that have filed a notice with it,
or by confirming directly with the
other financial institution or association of financial institutions that the
requisite notice has been filed.
(4) Use and security of information. (i)
Information received by a financial institution or an association of financial
institutions pursuant to this section
shall not be used for any purpose other
than:
(A) Identifying and, where appropriate, reporting on money laundering
or terrorist activities;
(B) Determining whether to establish
or maintain an account, or to engage
in a transaction; or

1155

VerDate Sep<11>2014

07:58 Sep 25, 2025

Jkt 265133

PO 00000

Frm 01165

Fmt 8010

Sfmt 8010

Y:\SGML\265133.XXX

265133

