§ 248.2

17 CFR Ch. II (4–1–25 Edition)

about consumers to nonaffiliated third
parties; and
(3) Provides a method for consumers
to prevent a financial institution from
disclosing that information to most
nonaffiliated third parties by ‘‘opting
out’’ of that disclosure, subject to the
exceptions in §§ 248.13, 248.14, and 248.15.
(b) Scope. Except with respect to
§ 248.30(b), this subpart applies only to
nonpublic personal information about
individuals who obtain financial products or services primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes from the
institutions listed below. This subpart
does not apply to information about
companies or about individuals who obtain financial products or services primarily for business, commercial, or agricultural purposes. This part applies
to brokers, dealers, and investment
companies, as well as to investment advisers that are registered with the
Commission. It also applies to foreign
(non-resident) brokers, dealers, investment companies and investment advisers that are registered with the Commission. These entities are referred to
in this subpart as ‘‘you.’’ This subpart
does not apply to foreign (non-resident)
brokers, dealers, investment companies
and investment advisers that are not
registered with the Commission. Nothing in this subpart modifies, limits, or
supersedes the standards governing individually identifiable health information promulgated by the Secretary of
Health and Human Services under the
authority of sections 262 and 264 of the
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C.
1320d–1320d–8).
[65 FR 40362, June 29, 2000, as amended at 69
FR 71329, Dec. 8, 2004]

§ 248.2 Model privacy form: rule of
construction.
(a) Model privacy form. Use of the
model privacy form in appendix A to
subpart A of this part, consistent with
the instructions in appendix A to subpart A, constitutes compliance with
the notice content requirements of
§§ 248.6 and 248.7 of this part, although
use of the model privacy form is not required.
(b) Examples. The examples in this
part provide guidance concerning the
rule’s application in ordinary cir-

cumstances.
The
facts
and
circumstances of each individual situation, however, will determine whether
compliance with an example, to the extent practicable, constitutes compliance with this part.
(c) Substituted compliance with CFTC
financial privacy rules by futures commission merchants and introducing brokers.
Except with respect to § 248.30(b), any
futures commission merchant or introducing broker (as those terms are defined in the Commodity Exchange Act
(7 U.S.C. 1, et seq.)) registered by notice
with the Commission for the purpose of
conducting business in security futures
products
pursuant
to
section
15(b)(11)(A) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(11)(A)) that
is subject to and in compliance with
the financial privacy rules of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(17 CFR part 160) will be deemed to be
in compliance with this part.
[74 FR 62984, Dec. 1, 2009]

§ 248.3 Definitions.
As used in this subpart, unless the
context requires otherwise:
(a) Affiliate of a broker, dealer, or investment company, or an investment
adviser registered with the Commission
means any company that controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control with the broker, dealer, or investment company, or investment adviser
registered with the Commission. In addition, a broker, dealer, or investment
company, or an investment adviser registered with the Commission will be
deemed an affiliate of a company for
purposes of this subpart if:
(1) That company is regulated under
Title V of the GLBA by the Federal
Trade Commission or by a Federal
functional regulator other than the
Commission; and
(2) Rules adopted by the Federal
Trade Commission or another federal
functional regulator under Title V of
the GLBA treat the broker, dealer, or
investment company, or investment
adviser registered with the Commission
as an affiliate of that company.
(b) Broker has the same meaning as in
section 3(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)).

234

Securities and Exchange Commission

§ 248.3

(c)(1) Clear and conspicuous means
that a notice is reasonably understandable and designed to call attention to
the nature and significance of the information in the notice.
(2) Examples—(i) Reasonably understandable. You make your notice reasonably understandable if you:
(A) Present the information in the
notice in clear, concise sentences,
paragraphs, and sections;
(B) Use short explanatory sentences
or bullet lists whenever possible;
(C) Use definite, concrete, everyday
words and active voice whenever possible;
(D) Avoid multiple negatives;
(E) Avoid legal and highly technical
business terminology whenever possible; and
(F) Avoid explanations that are imprecise and readily subject to different
interpretations.
(ii) Designed to call attention. You design your notice to call attention to
the nature and significance of the information in it if you:
(A) Use a plain-language heading to
call attention to the notice;
(B) Use a typeface and type size that
are easy to read;
(C) Provide wide margins and ample
line spacing;
(D) Use boldface or italics for key
words; and
(E) Use distinctive type size, style,
and graphic devices, such as shading or
sidebars when you combine your notice
with other information.
(iii) Notices on web sites. If you provide a notice on a web page, you design
your notice to call attention to the nature and significance of the information in it if you use text or visual cues
to encourage scrolling down the page if
necessary to view the entire notice and
ensure that other elements on the web
site (such as text, graphics, hyperlinks,
or sound) do not distract attention
from the notice, and you either:
(A) Place the notice on a screen that
consumers frequently access, such as a
page on which transactions are conducted; or
(B) Place a link on a screen that consumers frequently access, such as a
page on which transactions are conducted, that connects directly to the
notice and is labeled appropriately to

convey the importance, nature, and
relevance of the notice.
(d) Collect means to obtain information that you organize or can retrieve
by the name of an individual or by
identifying number, symbol, or other
identifying particular assigned to the
individual, irrespective of the source of
the underlying information.
(e) Commission means the Securities
and Exchange Commission.
(f) Company means any corporation,
limited liability company, business
trust, general or limited partnership,
association, or similar organization.
(g)(1) Consumer means an individual
who obtains or has obtained a financial
product or service from you that is to
be used primarily for personal, family,
or household purposes, or that individual’s legal representative.
(2) Examples. (i) An individual is your
consumer if he or she provides nonpublic personal information to you in
connection with obtaining or seeking
to obtain brokerage services or investment advisory services, whether or not
you provide brokerage services to the
individual or establish a continuing relationship with the individual.
(ii) An individual is not your consumer if he or she provides you only
with his or her name, address, and general areas of investment interest in
connection with a request for a prospectus, an investment adviser brochure, or other information about financial products or services.
(iii) An individual is not your consumer if he or she has an account with
another broker or dealer (the introducing broker-dealer) that carries securities for the individual in a special
omnibus account with you (the clearing broker-dealer) in the name of the
introducing broker-dealer, and when
you receive only the account numbers
and transaction information of the introducing broker-dealer’s consumers in
order to clear transactions.
(iv) If you are an investment company, an individual is not your consumer when the individual purchases
an interest in shares you have issued
only through a broker or dealer or investment adviser who is the record
owner of those shares.
(v) An individual who is a consumer
of another financial institution is not

235

§ 248.3

17 CFR Ch. II (4–1–25 Edition)

your consumer solely because you act
as agent for, or provide processing or
other services to, that financial institution.
(vi) An individual is not your consumer solely because he or she has designated you as trustee for a trust.
(vii) An individual is not your consumer solely because he or she is a beneficiary of a trust for which you are a
trustee.
(viii) An individual is not your consumer solely because he or she is a participant or a beneficiary of an employee benefit plan that you sponsor or
for which you act as a trustee or fiduciary.
(h) Consumer reporting agency has the
same meaning as in section 603(f) of the
Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C.
1681a(f)).
(i) Control of a company means the
power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies
of a company whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise. Any person who owns beneficially, either directly or through one
or more controlled companies, more
than 25 percent of the voting securities
of any company is presumed to control
the company. Any person who does not
own more than 25 percent of the voting
securities of any company will be presumed not to control the company.
Any presumption regarding control
may be rebutted by evidence, but, in
the case of an investment company,
will continue until the Commission
makes a decision to the contrary according to the procedures described in
section 2(a)(9) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a–2(a)(9)).
(j) Customer means a consumer who
has a customer relationship with you.
(k)(1) Customer relationship means a
continuing relationship between a consumer and you under which you provide one or more financial products or
services to the consumer that are to be
used primarily for personal, family, or
household purposes.
(2) Examples—(i) Continuing relationship. A consumer has a continuing relationship with you if:
(A) The consumer has a brokerage account with you, or if a consumer’s account is transferred to you from another broker-dealer;

(B) The consumer has an investment
advisory contract with you (whether
written or oral);
(C) The consumer is the record owner
of securities you have issued if you are
an investment company;
(D) The consumer holds an investment product through you, such as
when you act as a custodian for securities or for assets in an Individual Retirement Arrangement;
(E) The consumer purchases a variable annuity from you;
(F) The consumer has an account
with an introducing broker or dealer
that clears transactions with and for
its customers through you on a fully
disclosed basis;
(G) You hold securities or other assets as collateral for a loan made to
the consumer, even if you did not make
the loan or do not effect any transactions on behalf of the consumer; or
(H) You regularly effect or engage in
securities transactions with or for a
consumer even if you do not hold any
assets of the consumer.
(ii) No continuing relationship. A consumer does not, however, have a continuing relationship with you if you
open an account for the consumer solely for the purpose of liquidating or purchasing securities as an accommodation, i.e., on a one time basis, without
the expectation of engaging in other
transactions.
(l) Dealer has the same meaning as in
section 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
(m)
Federal
functional
regulator
means:
(1) The Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System;
(2) The Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency;
(3) The Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
(4) The Director of the Office of
Thrift Supervision;
(5) The National Credit Union Administration Board
(6) The Securities and Exchange
Commission; and
(7) The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.
(n)(1) Financial institution means any
institution the business of which is engaging in activities that are financial

236

Securities and Exchange Commission

§ 248.3

in nature or incidental to such financial activities as described in section
4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act
of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)).
(2) Financial institution does not include:
(i) The Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation or any entity chartered and operating under the Farm
Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.);
or
(ii) Institutions chartered by Congress
specifically
to
engage
in
securitizations, secondary market sales
(including sales of servicing rights), or
similar transactions related to a transaction of a consumer, as long as such
institutions do not sell or transfer nonpublic personal information to a nonaffiliated third party.
(o)(1) Financial product or service
means any product or service that a financial holding company could offer by
engaging in an activity that is financial in nature or incidental to such a financial activity under section 4(k) of
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956
(12 U.S.C. 1843(k)).
(2) Financial service includes your
evaluation or brokerage of information
that you collect in connection with a
request or an application from a consumer for a financial product or service.
(p) GLBA means the Gramm-LeachBliley Act (Pub. L. No. 106–102, 113
Stat. 1338 (1999)).
(q) Investment adviser has the same
meaning as in section 202(a)(11) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15
U.S.C. 80b–2(a)(11)).
(r) Investment company has the same
meaning as in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C.
80a–3), and includes a separate series of
the investment company.
(s)(1) Nonaffiliated third party means
any person except:
(i) Your affiliate; or
(ii) A person employed jointly by you
and any company that is not your affiliate (but nonaffiliated third party includes the other company that jointly
employs the person).
(2) Nonaffiliated third party includes
any company that is an affiliate solely
by virtue of your or your affiliate’s direct or indirect ownership or control of
the company in conducting merchant

banking or investment banking activities of the type described in section
4(k)(4)(H) or insurance company investment activities of the type described in
section 4(k)(4)(I) of the Bank Holding
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H)
and (I)).
(t)(1) Nonpublic personal information
means:
(i) Personally identifiable financial
information; and
(ii) Any list, description, or other
grouping of consumers (and publicly
available information pertaining to
them) that is derived using any personally identifiable financial information
that is not publicly available information.
(2) Nonpublic personal information does
not include:
(i) Publicly available information,
except as included on a list described in
paragraph (t)(1)(ii) of this section or
when the publicly available information is disclosed in a manner that indicates the individual is or has been your
consumer; or
(ii) Any list, description, or other
grouping of consumers (and publicly
available information pertaining to
them) that is derived without using
any personally identifiable financial
information that is not publicly available information.
(3) Examples of lists. (i) Nonpublic personal information includes any list of
individuals’ names and street addresses
that is derived in whole or in part
using personally identifiable financial
information that is not publicly available information, such as account numbers.
(ii) Nonpublic personal information
does not include any list of individuals’
names and addresses that contains
only publicly available information, is
not derived in whole or in part using
personally identifiable financial information that is not publicly available
information, and is not disclosed in a
manner that indicates that any of the
individuals on the list is a consumer of
a financial institution.
(u)(1) Personally identifiable financial
information means any information:
(i) A consumer provides to you to obtain a financial product or service from
you;

237

§ 248.3

17 CFR Ch. II (4–1–25 Edition)

(ii) About a consumer resulting from
any transaction involving a financial
product or service between you and a
consumer; or
(iii) You otherwise obtain about a
consumer in connection with providing
a financial product or service to that
consumer.
(2) Examples—(i) Information included.
Personally identifiable financial information includes:
(A) Information a consumer provides
to you on an application to obtain a
loan, credit card, or other financial
product or service;
(B) Account balance information,
payment history, overdraft history,
and credit or debit card purchase information;
(C) The fact that an individual is or
has been one of your customers or has
obtained a financial product or service
from you;
(D) Any information about your consumer if it is disclosed in a manner
that indicates that the individual is or
has been your consumer;
(E) Any information that a consumer
provides to you or that you or your
agent otherwise obtain in connection
with collecting on a loan or servicing a
loan;
(F) Any information you collect
through an Internet ‘‘cookie’’ (an information collecting device from a web
server); and
(G) Information from a consumer report.
(ii) Information not included. Personally identifiable financial information
does not include:
(A) A list of names and addresses of
customers of an entity that is not a financial institution; or
(B) Information that does not identify a consumer, such as aggregate information or blind data that does not
contain personal identifiers such as account numbers, names, or addresses.
(v)(1) Publicly available information
means any information that you reasonably believe is lawfully made available to the general public from:
(i) Federal, State, or local government records;
(ii) Widely distributed media; or
(iii) Disclosures to the general public
that are required to be made by federal, State, or local law.

(2) Examples—(i) Reasonable belief. (A)
You have a reasonable belief that information about your consumer is made
available to the general public if you
have confirmed, or your consumer has
represented to you, that the information is publicly available from a source
described in paragraphs (v)(1)(i)–(iii) of
this section;
(B) You have a reasonable belief that
information about your consumer is
made available to the general public if
you have taken steps to submit the information, in accordance with your internal procedures and policies and with
applicable law, to a keeper of federal,
State, or local government records
that is required by law to make the information publicly available.
(C) You have a reasonable belief that
an individual’s telephone number is
lawfully made available to the general
public if you have located the telephone number in the telephone book or
the consumer has informed you that
the telephone number is not unlisted.
(D) You do not have a reasonable belief that information about a consumer
is publicly available solely because
that information would normally be recorded with a keeper of federal, State,
or local government records that is required by law to make the information
publicly available, if the consumer has
the ability in accordance with applicable law to keep that information nonpublic, such as where a consumer may
record a deed in the name of a blind
trust.
(ii) Government records. Publicly
available information in government
records includes information in government real estate records and security
interest filings.
(iii) Widely distributed media. Publicly
available information from widely distributed media includes information
from a telephone book, a television or
radio program, a newspaper, or a web
site that is available to the general
public on an unrestricted basis. A web
site is not restricted merely because an
Internet service provider or a site operator requires a fee or a password, so
long as access is available to the general public.
(w) You means:
(1) Any broker or dealer;
(2) Any investment company; and

238

Securities and Exchange Commission

§ 248.4

(3) Any investment adviser registered
with the Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

(iii) Enters into an advisory contract
with you (whether in writing or orally); or
(iv) Purchases shares you have issued
(and the consumer is the record owner
of the shares), if you are an investment
company.
(d) Existing customers. When an existing customer obtains a new financial
product or service from you that is to
be used primarily for personal, family,
or household purposes, you satisfy the
initial notice requirements of paragraph (a) of this section as follows:
(1) You may provide a revised privacy
notice, under § 248.8, that covers the
customer’s new financial product or
service; or
(2) If the initial, revised, or annual
notice that you most recently provided
to that customer was accurate with respect to the new financial product or
service, you do not need to provide a
new privacy notice under paragraph (a)
of this section.
(e) Exceptions to allow subsequent delivery of notice. (1) You may provide the
initial notice required by paragraph
(a)(1) of this section within a reasonable time after you establish a customer relationship if:
(i) Establishing the customer relationship is not at the customer’s election;
(ii) Providing notice not later than
when you establish a customer relationship would substantially delay the
customer’s transaction and the customer agrees to receive the notice at a
later time; or
(iii) A nonaffiliated broker or dealer
or investment adviser establishes a
customer relationship between you and
a consumer without your prior knowledge.
(2) Examples of exceptions—(i) Not at
customer’s election. Establishing a customer relationship is not at the customer’s election if the customer’s account is transferred to you by a trustee
selected by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (‘‘SIPC’’) and appointed by a United States Court.
(ii) Substantial delay of customer’s
transaction. Providing notice not later
than when you establish a customer relationship would substantially delay
the customer’s transaction when you

[65 FR 40362, June 29, 2000, as amended at 66
FR 45147, Aug. 27, 2001; 74 FR 40431, Aug. 11,
2009]

PRIVACY AND OPT OUT NOTICES
§ 248.4 Initial privacy notice to consumers required.
(a) Initial notice requirement. You
must provide a clear and conspicuous
notice that accurately reflects your
privacy policies and practices to:
(1) Customer. An individual who becomes your customer, not later than
when you establish a customer relationship, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section; and
(2) Consumer. A consumer, before you
disclose any nonpublic personal information about the consumer to any
nonaffiliated third party, if you make
such a disclosure other than as authorized by §§ 248.14 and 248.15.
(b) When initial notice to a consumer is
not required. You are not required to
provide an initial notice to a consumer
under paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) You do not disclose any nonpublic
personal information about the consumer to any nonaffiliated third party,
other than as authorized by §§ 248.14
and 248.15; and
(2) You do not have a customer relationship with the consumer.
(c) When you establish a customer relationship—(1) General rule. You establish
a customer relationship when you and
the consumer enter into a continuing
relationship.
(2) Special rule for loans. You do not
have a customer relationship with a
consumer if you buy a loan made to the
consumer but do not have the servicing
rights for that loan.
(3) Examples of establishing customer
relationship. You establish a customer
relationship when the consumer:
(i) Effects a securities transaction
with you or opens a brokerage account
with you under your procedures;
(ii) Opens a brokerage account with
an introducing broker or dealer that
clears transactions with and for its
customers through you on a fully disclosed basis;

239

