Federal Reserve System

§ 220.8

the lender apart from the subordinated
loan; or
(ii) Will not use the proceeds of the
loan to increase the amount of dealing
in securities for the account of the
creditor, its firm or corporation or an
affiliated corporation.
(f) Omnibus credit (1) A creditor may
effect and finance transactions for a
broker or dealer who is registered with
the SEC under section 15 of the Act and
who gives the creditor written notice
that:
(i) All securities will be for the account of customers of the broker or
dealer; and
(ii) Any short sales effected will be
short sales made on behalf of the customers of the broker or dealer other
than partners.
(2) The written notice required by
paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall
conform to any SEC rule on the
hypothecation of customers’ securities
by brokers or dealers.
(g) Special purpose credit. A creditor
may extend the following types of credit with good faith margin:
(1) Credit to finance the purchase or
sale of securities for prompt delivery,
if the credit is to be repaid upon completion of the transaction.
(2) Credit to finance securities in
transit or surrendered for transfer, if
the credit is to be repaid upon completion of the transaction.
(3) Credit to enable a broker or dealer
to pay for securities, if the credit is to
be repaid on the same day it is extended.
(4) Credit to an exempted borrower.
(5) Credit to a member of a national
securities
exchange
or
registered
broker or dealer to finance its activities as a market maker or specialist.
(6) Credit to a member of a national
securities
exchange
or
registered
broker or dealer to finance its activities as an underwriter.

(ii) The creditor accepts in good faith
the customer’s agreement that the customer will promptly make full cash
payment for the security or asset before selling it and does not contemplate selling it prior to making
such payment;
(2) Buy from or sell for any customer
any security or other asset if:
(i) The security is held in the account; or
(ii) The creditor accepts in good faith
the customer’s statement that the security is owned by the customer or the
customer’s principal, and that it will
be promptly deposited in the account;
(3) Issue, endorse, or guarantee, or
sell an option for any customer as part
of a covered option transaction; and
(4) Use an escrow agreement in lieu
of the cash, cash equivalents or underlying asset position if:
(i) In the case of a short call or a
short put, the creditor is advised by
the customer that the required securities, assets or cash are held by a person
authorized to issue an escrow agreement and the creditor independently
verifies that the appropriate escrow
agreement will be delivered by the person promptly; or
(ii) In the case of a call issued, endorsed, guaranteed, or sold on the same
day the underlying asset is purchased
in the account and the underlying
asset is to be delivered to a person authorized to issue an escrow agreement,
the creditor verifies that the appropriate escrow agreement will be delivered by the person promptly.
(b) Time periods for payment; cancellation or liquidation—(1) Full cash payment. A creditor shall obtain full cash
payment for customer purchases:
(i) Within one payment period of the
date:
(A) Any nonexempted security was
purchased;
(B) Any when-issued security was
made available by the issuer for delivery to purchasers;
(C) Any ‘‘when distributed’’ security
was distributed under a published plan;
(D) A security owned by the customer has matured or has been redeemed and a new refunding security of
the same issuer has been purchased by
the customer, provided:

[Reg. T, 63 FR 2824, Jan. 16, 1998]

§ 220.8

Cash account.

(a) Permissible transactions. In a cash
account, a creditor, may:
(1) Buy for or sell to any customer
any security or other asset if:
(i) There are sufficient funds in the
account; or

13

§ 220.9

12 CFR Ch. II (1–1–25 Edition)

(1) The customer purchased the new
security no more than 35 calendar days
prior to the date of maturity or redemption of the old security;
(2) The customer is entitled to the
proceeds of the redemption; and
(3) The delayed payment does not exceed 103 percent of the proceeds of the
old security.
(ii) In the case of the purchase of a
foreign security, within one payment
period of the trade date or within one
day after the date on which settlement
is required to occur by the rules of the
foreign securities market, provided
this period does not exceed the maximum time permitted by this part for
delivery against payment transactions.
(2) Delivery against payment. If a creditor purchases for or sells to a customer a security in a delivery against
payment transaction, the creditor shall
have up to 35 calendar days to obtain
payment if delivery of the security is
delayed due to the mechanics of the
transaction and is not related to the
customer’s willingness or ability to
pay.
(3) Shipment of securities, extension. If
any shipment of securities is incidental
to consummation of a transaction, a
creditor may extend the payment period by the number of days required for
shipment, but not by more than one
additional payment period.
(4) Cancellation; liquidation; minimum
amount. A creditor shall promptly cancel or otherwise liquidate a transaction
or any part of a transaction for which
the customer has not made full cash
payment within the required time. A
creditor may, at its option, disregard
any sum due from the customer not exceeding $1000.
(c) 90 day freeze. (1) If a nonexempted
security in the account is sold or delivered to another broker or dealer without having been previously paid for in
full by the customer, the privilege of
delaying payment beyond the trade
date shall be withdrawn for 90 calendar
days following the date of sale of the
security. Cancellation of the transaction other than to correct an error
shall constitute a sale.
(2) The 90 day freeze shall not apply
if:
(i) Within the period specified in
paragraph (b)(1) of this section, full

payment is received or any check or
draft in payment has cleared and the
proceeds from the sale are not withdrawn prior to such payment or check
clearance; or
(ii) The purchased security was delivered to another broker or dealer for deposit in a cash account which holds
sufficient funds to pay for the security.
The creditor may rely on a written
statement accepted in good faith from
the other broker or dealer that sufficient funds are held in the other cash
account.
(d) Extension of time periods; transfers.
(1) Unless the creditor’s examining authority believes that the creditor is not
acting in good faith or that the creditor has not sufficiently determined
that exceptional circumstances warrant such action, it may upon application by the creditor:
(i) Extend any period specified in
paragraph (b) of this section;
(ii) Authorize transfer to another account of any transaction involving the
purchase of a margin or exempted security; or
(iii) Grant a waiver from the 90 day
freeze.
(2) Applications shall be filed and
acted upon prior to the end of the payment period, or in the case of the purchase of a foreign security within the
period specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)
of this section, or the expiration of any
subsequent extension.
[Reg. T, 63 FR 2825, Jan. 16, 1998]

§ 220.9 Clearance of securities, options,
and futures.
(a) Credit for clearance of securities.
The provisions of this part shall not
apply to the extension or maintenance
of any credit that is not for more than
one day if it is incidental to the clearance of transactions in securities directly between members of a national
securities exchange or association or
through any clearing agency registered
with the SEC.
(b) Deposit of securities with a clearing
agency. The provisions of this part
shall not apply to the deposit of securities with an option or futures clearing
agency for the purpose of meeting the
deposit requirements of the agency if:
(1) The clearing agency:

14

