Federal Reserve System

§ 220.4

(1) Reductions in the customer’s equity resulting from changes in market
prices;
(2) Any security in an account ceasing to be margin or exempted; or
(3) Any change in the margin requirements prescribed under this part.
(d) Guarantee of accounts. No guarantee of a customer’s account shall be
given any effect for purposes of this
part.
(e) Receipt of funds or securities. (1) A
creditor, acting in good faith, may accept as immediate payment:
(i) Cash or any check, draft, or order
payable on presentation; or
(ii) Any security with sight draft attached.
(2) A creditor may treat a security,
check or draft as received upon written
notification from another creditor that
the specified security, check, or draft
has been sent.
(3) Upon notification that a check,
draft, or order has been dishonored or
when securities have not been received
within a reasonable time, the creditor
shall take the action required by this
part when payment or securities are
not received on time.
(4) To temporarily finance a customer’s receipt of securities pursuant
to an employee benefit plan registered
on SEC Form S–8 or the withholding
taxes for an employee stock award
plan, a creditor may accept, in lieu of
the securities, a properly executed exercise notice, where applicable, and instructions to the issuer to deliver the
stock to the creditor. Prior to acceptance, the creditor must verify that the
issuer will deliver the securities
promptly and the customer must designate the account into which the securities are to be deposited.
(f) Exchange of securities. (1) To enable
a customer to participate in an offer to
exchange securities which is made to
all holders of an issue of securities, a
creditor may submit for exchange any
securities held in a margin account,
without regard to the other provisions
of this part, provided the consideration
received is deposited into the account.
(2) If a nonmargin, nonexempted security is acquired in exchange for a
margin security, its retention, withdrawal, or sale within 60 days following

its acquisition shall be treated as if the
security is a margin security.
(g) Arranging for loans by others. A
creditor may arrange for the extension
or maintenance of credit to or for any
customer by any person, provided the
creditor does not willfully arrange
credit that violates parts 221 or 224 of
this chapter.
(h) Innocent mistakes. If any failure to
comply with this part results from a
mistake made in good faith in executing a transaction or calculating the
amount of margin, the creditor shall
not be deemed in violation of this part
if, promptly after the discovery of the
mistake, the creditor takes appropriate
corrective action.
(i) Foreign currency. (1) Freely convertible foreign currency may be treated at its U.S. dollar equivalent, provided the currency is marked-to-market daily.
(2) A creditor may extend credit denominated in any freely convertible
foreign currency.
(j) Exempted borrowers. (1) A member
of a national securities exchange or a
registered broker or dealer that has
been in existence for less than one year
may meet the definition of exempted
borrower based on a six-month period.
(2) Once a member of a national securities exchange or registered broker or
dealer ceases to qualify as an exempted
borrower, it shall notify its lender of
this fact before obtaining additional
credit. Any new extensions of credit to
such a borrower, including rollovers,
renewals, and additional draws on existing lines of credit, are subject to the
provisions of this part.
[Reg. T, 63 FR 2822, Jan. 16, 1998]

§ 220.4 Margin account.
(a) Margin transactions. (1) All transactions not specifically authorized for
inclusion in another account shall be
recorded in the margin account.
(2) A creditor may establish separate
margin accounts for the same person
to:
(i) Clear transactions for other creditors where the transactions are introduced to the clearing creditor by separate creditors; or
(ii) Clear transactions through other
creditors if the transactions are
cleared by separate creditors; or

9

§ 220.4

12 CFR Ch. II (1–1–25 Edition)

(iii) Provide one or more accounts
over which the creditor or a third
party investment adviser has investment discretion.
(b) Required margin—(1) Applicability.
The required margin for each long or
short position in securities is set forth
in § 220.12 (the Supplement) and is subject to the following exceptions and
special provisions.
(2) Short sale against the box. A short
sale ‘‘against the box’’ shall be treated
as a long sale for the purpose of computing the equity and the required
margin.
(3) When-issued securities. The required margin on a net long or net
short commitment in a when-issued security is the margin that would be required if the security were an issued
margin security, plus any unrealized
loss on the commitment or less any unrealized gain.
(4) Stock used as cover. (i) When a
short position held in the account
serves in lieu of the required margin
for a short put, the amount prescribed
by paragraph (b)(1) of this section as
the amount to be added to the required
margin in respect of short sales shall
be increased by any unrealized loss on
the position.
(ii) When a security held in the account serves in lieu of the required
margin for a short call, the security
shall be valued at no greater than the
exercise price of the short call.
(5) Accounts of partners. If a partner of
the creditor has a margin account with
the creditor, the creditor shall disregard the partner’s financial relations
with the firm (as shown in the partner’s capital and ordinary drawing accounts) in calculating the margin or
equity of the partner’s margin account.
(6) Contribution to joint venture. If a
margin account is the account of a
joint venture in which the creditor participates, any interest of the creditor
in the joint account in excess of the interest which the creditor would have
on the basis of its right to share in the
profits shall be treated as an extension
of credit to the joint account and shall
be margined as such.
(7) Transfer of accounts. (i) A margin
account that is transferred from one
creditor to another may be treated as
if it had been maintained by the trans-

feree from the date of its origin, if the
transferee accepts, in good faith, a
signed statement of the transferor (or,
if that is not practicable, of the customer), that any margin call issued
under this part has been satisfied.
(ii) A margin account that is transferred from one customer to another as
part of a transaction, not undertaken
to avoid the requirements of this part,
may be treated as if it had been maintained for the transferee from the date
of its origin, if the creditor accepts in
good faith and keeps with the transferee account a signed statement of the
transferor
describing
the
circumstances for the transfer.
(8) Sound credit judgment. In exercising sound credit judgment to determine the margin required in good faith
pursuant to § 220.12 (the Supplement),
the creditor shall make its determination for a specified security position
without regard to the customer’s other
assets or securities positions held in
connection
with
unrelated
transactions.
(c) When additional margin is required—(1) Computing deficiency. All
transactions on the same day shall be
combined to determine whether additional margin is required by the creditor. For the purpose of computing equity in an account, security positions
are established or eliminated and a
credit or debit created on the trade
date of a security transaction. Additional margin is required on any day
when the day’s transactions create or
increase a margin deficiency in the account and shall be for the amount of
the margin deficiency so created or increased.
(2) Satisfaction of deficiency. The additional required margin may be satisfied by a transfer from the special
memorandum account or by a deposit
of cash, margin securities, exempted
securities, or any combination thereof.
(3) Time limits. (i) A margin call shall
be satisfied within one payment period
after the margin deficiency was created or increased.
(ii) The payment period may be extended for one or more limited periods
upon application by the creditor to its
examining authority unless the examining authority believes that the creditor is not acting in good faith or that

10

Federal Reserve System

§ 220.5
(ii) Premiums on securities borrowed
in connection with short sales or to effect delivery;
(iii) Dividends, interest, or other distributions due on borrowed securities;
(iv) Communication or shipping
charges with respect to transactions in
the margin account; and
(v) Any other service charges which
the creditor may impose.
(2) A creditor may permit interest,
dividends, or other distributions credited to a margin account to be withdrawn from the account if:
(i) The withdrawal does not create or
increase a margin deficiency in the account; or
(ii) The current market value of any
securities withdrawn does not exceed 10
percent of the current market value of
the security with respect to which they
were distributed.

the creditor has not sufficiently determined that exceptional circumstances
warrant such action. Applications shall
be filed and acted upon prior to the end
of the payment period or the expiration
of any subsequent extension.
(4) Satisfaction restriction. Any transaction, position, or deposit that is used
to satisfy one requirement under this
part shall be unavailable to satisfy any
other requirement.
(d) Liquidation in lieu of deposit. If any
margin call is not met in full within
the required time, the creditor shall
liquidate securities sufficient to meet
the margin call or to eliminate any
margin deficiency existing on the day
such liquidation is required, whichever
is less. If the margin deficiency created
or increased is $1000 or less, no action
need be taken by the creditor.
(e) Withdrawals of cash or securities.
(1) Cash or securities may be withdrawn from an account, except if:
(i) Additional cash or securities are
required to be deposited into the account for a transaction on the same or
a previous day; or
(ii) The withdrawal, together with
other transactions, deposits, and withdrawals on the same day, would create
or increase a margin deficiency.
(2) Margin excess may be withdrawn
or may be transferred to the special
memorandum account (§ 220.5) by making a single entry to that account
which will represent a debit to the
margin account and a credit to the special memorandum account.
(3) If a creditor does not receive a distribution of cash or securities which is
payable with respect to any security in
a margin account on the day it is payable and withdrawal would not be permitted under this paragraph (e), a
withdrawal
transaction
shall
be
deemed to have occurred on the day
the distribution is payable.
(f) Interest, service charges, etc. (1)
Without regard to the other provisions
of this section, the creditor, in its
usual practice, may debit the following
items to a margin account if they are
considered in calculating the balance
of such account:
(i) Interest charged on credit maintained in the margin account;

[Reg. T, 63 FR 2823, Jan. 16, 1998]

§ 220.5

Special memorandum account.

(a) A special memorandum account
(SMA) may be maintained in conjunction with a margin account. A single
entry amount may be used to represent
both a credit to the SMA and a debit to
the margin account. A transfer between the two accounts may be effected by an increase or reduction in
the entry. When computing the equity
in a margin account, the single entry
amount shall be considered as a debit
in the margin account. A payment to
the customer or on the customer’s behalf or a transfer to any of the customer’s other accounts from the SMA
reduces the single entry amount.
(b) The SMA may contain the following entries:
(1) Dividend and interest payments;
(2) Cash not required by this part, including cash deposited to meet a maintenance margin call or to meet any requirement of a self-regulatory organization that is not imposed by this part;
(3) Proceeds of a sale of securities or
cash no longer required on any expired
or liquidated security position that
may be withdrawn under § 220.4(e); and
(4) Margin excess transferred from
the margin account under § 220.4(e)(2).
[Reg. T, 63 FR 2824, Jan. 16, 1998]

11

