Securities and Exchange Commission

§ 248.4

(3) Any investment adviser registered
with the Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

(iii) Enters into an advisory contract
with you (whether in writing or orally); or
(iv) Purchases shares you have issued
(and the consumer is the record owner
of the shares), if you are an investment
company.
(d) Existing customers. When an existing customer obtains a new financial
product or service from you that is to
be used primarily for personal, family,
or household purposes, you satisfy the
initial notice requirements of paragraph (a) of this section as follows:
(1) You may provide a revised privacy
notice, under § 248.8, that covers the
customer’s new financial product or
service; or
(2) If the initial, revised, or annual
notice that you most recently provided
to that customer was accurate with respect to the new financial product or
service, you do not need to provide a
new privacy notice under paragraph (a)
of this section.
(e) Exceptions to allow subsequent delivery of notice. (1) You may provide the
initial notice required by paragraph
(a)(1) of this section within a reasonable time after you establish a customer relationship if:
(i) Establishing the customer relationship is not at the customer’s election;
(ii) Providing notice not later than
when you establish a customer relationship would substantially delay the
customer’s transaction and the customer agrees to receive the notice at a
later time; or
(iii) A nonaffiliated broker or dealer
or investment adviser establishes a
customer relationship between you and
a consumer without your prior knowledge.
(2) Examples of exceptions—(i) Not at
customer’s election. Establishing a customer relationship is not at the customer’s election if the customer’s account is transferred to you by a trustee
selected by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (‘‘SIPC’’) and appointed by a United States Court.
(ii) Substantial delay of customer’s
transaction. Providing notice not later
than when you establish a customer relationship would substantially delay
the customer’s transaction when you

[65 FR 40362, June 29, 2000, as amended at 66
FR 45147, Aug. 27, 2001; 74 FR 40431, Aug. 11,
2009]

PRIVACY AND OPT OUT NOTICES
§ 248.4 Initial privacy notice to consumers required.
(a) Initial notice requirement. You
must provide a clear and conspicuous
notice that accurately reflects your
privacy policies and practices to:
(1) Customer. An individual who becomes your customer, not later than
when you establish a customer relationship, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section; and
(2) Consumer. A consumer, before you
disclose any nonpublic personal information about the consumer to any
nonaffiliated third party, if you make
such a disclosure other than as authorized by §§ 248.14 and 248.15.
(b) When initial notice to a consumer is
not required. You are not required to
provide an initial notice to a consumer
under paragraph (a) of this section if:
(1) You do not disclose any nonpublic
personal information about the consumer to any nonaffiliated third party,
other than as authorized by §§ 248.14
and 248.15; and
(2) You do not have a customer relationship with the consumer.
(c) When you establish a customer relationship—(1) General rule. You establish
a customer relationship when you and
the consumer enter into a continuing
relationship.
(2) Special rule for loans. You do not
have a customer relationship with a
consumer if you buy a loan made to the
consumer but do not have the servicing
rights for that loan.
(3) Examples of establishing customer
relationship. You establish a customer
relationship when the consumer:
(i) Effects a securities transaction
with you or opens a brokerage account
with you under your procedures;
(ii) Opens a brokerage account with
an introducing broker or dealer that
clears transactions with and for its
customers through you on a fully disclosed basis;

239

§ 248.5

17 CFR Ch. II (4–1–25 Edition)

and the individual agree over the telephone to enter into a customer relationship involving prompt delivery of
the financial product or service.
(iii) No substantial delay of customer’s
transaction. Providing notice not later
than when you establish a customer relationship would not substantially
delay the customer’s transaction when
the relationship is initiated in person
at your office or through other means
by which the customer may view the
notice, such as on a web site.
(f) Delivery. When you are required to
deliver an initial privacy notice by this
section, you must deliver it according
to § 248.9. If you use a short-form initial
notice for non-customers according to
§ 248.6(d), you may deliver your privacy
notice according to § 248.6(d)(3).
§ 248.5 Annual privacy notice to customers required.
(a)(1) General rule. Except as provided
by paragraph (e) of this section, you
must provide a clear and conspicuous
notice to customers that accurately reflects your privacy policies and practices not less than annually during the
continuation of the customer relationship. Annually means at least once in
any period of 12 consecutive months
during which that relationship exists.
You may define the 12-consecutivemonth period, but you must apply it to
the customer on a consistent basis.
(2) Example. You provide a notice annually if you define the 12-consecutivemonth period as a calendar year and
provide the annual notice to the customer once in each calendar year following the calendar year in which you
provided the initial notice. For example, if a customer opens an account on
any day of year 1, you must provide an
annual notice to that customer by December 31 of year 2.
(b)(1) Termination of customer relationship. You are not required to provide
an annual notice to a former customer.
(2) Examples. Your customer becomes
a former customer when:
(i) The individual’s brokerage account is closed;
(ii) The individual’s investment advisory contract is terminated;
(iii) You are an investment company
and the individual is no longer the

record owner of securities you have
issued; or
(iv) You are an investment company
and your customer has been determined to be a lost securityholder as defined in 17 CFR 240.17a–24(b).
(c) Special rule for loans. If you do not
have a customer relationship with a
consumer under the special provision
for loans in § 248.4(c)(2), then you need
not provide an annual notice to that
consumer under this section.
(d) Delivery. When you are required to
deliver an annual privacy notice by
this section, you must deliver it according to § 248.9.
(e) Exception to annual privacy notice
requirement—(1) When exception available. You are not required to deliver an
annual privacy notice if you:
(i) Provide nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties
only in accordance with § 248.13, § 248.14,
or § 248.15; and
(ii) Have not changed your policies
and practices with regard to disclosing
nonpublic personal information from
the policies and practices that were
disclosed to the customer under
§ 248.6(a)(2) through (5) and (9) in the
most recent privacy notice provided
pursuant to this part.
(2) Delivery of annual privacy notice
after financial institution no longer meets
the requirements for exception. If you
have been excepted from delivering an
annual privacy notice pursuant to
paragraph (e)(1) of this section and
change your policies or practices in
such a way that you no longer meet the
requirements for that exception, you
must comply with paragraph (e)(2)(i) or
(ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Changes preceded by a revised privacy notice. If you no longer meet the
requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this
section because you change your policies or practices in such a way that
§ 248.8 requires you to provide a revised
privacy notice, you must provide an
annual privacy notice in accordance
with the timing requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, treating the
revised privacy notice as an initial privacy notice.
(ii) Changes not preceded by a revised
privacy notice. If you no longer meet
the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of
this section because you change your

240

