§ 248.5

17 CFR Ch. II (4–1–25 Edition)

and the individual agree over the telephone to enter into a customer relationship involving prompt delivery of
the financial product or service.
(iii) No substantial delay of customer’s
transaction. Providing notice not later
than when you establish a customer relationship would not substantially
delay the customer’s transaction when
the relationship is initiated in person
at your office or through other means
by which the customer may view the
notice, such as on a web site.
(f) Delivery. When you are required to
deliver an initial privacy notice by this
section, you must deliver it according
to § 248.9. If you use a short-form initial
notice for non-customers according to
§ 248.6(d), you may deliver your privacy
notice according to § 248.6(d)(3).
§ 248.5 Annual privacy notice to customers required.
(a)(1) General rule. Except as provided
by paragraph (e) of this section, you
must provide a clear and conspicuous
notice to customers that accurately reflects your privacy policies and practices not less than annually during the
continuation of the customer relationship. Annually means at least once in
any period of 12 consecutive months
during which that relationship exists.
You may define the 12-consecutivemonth period, but you must apply it to
the customer on a consistent basis.
(2) Example. You provide a notice annually if you define the 12-consecutivemonth period as a calendar year and
provide the annual notice to the customer once in each calendar year following the calendar year in which you
provided the initial notice. For example, if a customer opens an account on
any day of year 1, you must provide an
annual notice to that customer by December 31 of year 2.
(b)(1) Termination of customer relationship. You are not required to provide
an annual notice to a former customer.
(2) Examples. Your customer becomes
a former customer when:
(i) The individual’s brokerage account is closed;
(ii) The individual’s investment advisory contract is terminated;
(iii) You are an investment company
and the individual is no longer the

record owner of securities you have
issued; or
(iv) You are an investment company
and your customer has been determined to be a lost securityholder as defined in 17 CFR 240.17a–24(b).
(c) Special rule for loans. If you do not
have a customer relationship with a
consumer under the special provision
for loans in § 248.4(c)(2), then you need
not provide an annual notice to that
consumer under this section.
(d) Delivery. When you are required to
deliver an annual privacy notice by
this section, you must deliver it according to § 248.9.
(e) Exception to annual privacy notice
requirement—(1) When exception available. You are not required to deliver an
annual privacy notice if you:
(i) Provide nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties
only in accordance with § 248.13, § 248.14,
or § 248.15; and
(ii) Have not changed your policies
and practices with regard to disclosing
nonpublic personal information from
the policies and practices that were
disclosed to the customer under
§ 248.6(a)(2) through (5) and (9) in the
most recent privacy notice provided
pursuant to this part.
(2) Delivery of annual privacy notice
after financial institution no longer meets
the requirements for exception. If you
have been excepted from delivering an
annual privacy notice pursuant to
paragraph (e)(1) of this section and
change your policies or practices in
such a way that you no longer meet the
requirements for that exception, you
must comply with paragraph (e)(2)(i) or
(ii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) Changes preceded by a revised privacy notice. If you no longer meet the
requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this
section because you change your policies or practices in such a way that
§ 248.8 requires you to provide a revised
privacy notice, you must provide an
annual privacy notice in accordance
with the timing requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, treating the
revised privacy notice as an initial privacy notice.
(ii) Changes not preceded by a revised
privacy notice. If you no longer meet
the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of
this section because you change your

240

Securities and Exchange Commission

§ 248.6

policies or practices in such a way that
§ 248.8 does not require you to provide a
revised privacy notice, you must provide an annual privacy notice within
100 days of the change in your policies
or practices that causes you to no
longer meet the requirement of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(iii) Examples. (A) You change your
policies and practices in such a way
that you no longer meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section effective April 1 of year 1. Assuming you define the 12-consecutivemonth period pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this section as a calendar year, if
you were required to provide a revised
privacy notice under § 248.8 and you
provided that notice on March 1 of year
1, you must provide an annual privacy
notice by December 31 of year 2. If you
were not required to provide a revised
privacy notice under § 248.8, you must
provide an annual privacy notice by
July 9 of year 1.
(B) You change your policies and
practices in such a way that you no
longer meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, and so provide an annual notice to your customers. After providing the annual notice to your customers, you once again
meet the requirements of paragraph
(e)(1) of this section for an exception to
the annual notice requirement. You do
not need to provide additional annual
notice to your customers until such
time as you no longer meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this
section.

(3) The categories of affiliates and
nonaffiliated third parties to whom
you disclose nonpublic personal information, other than those parties to
whom you disclose information under
§§ 248.14 and 248.15;
(4) The categories of nonpublic personal information about your former
customers that you disclose and the
categories of affiliates and nonaffiliated third parties to whom you
disclose nonpublic personal information about your former customers,
other than those parties to whom you
disclose information under §§ 248.14 and
248.15;
(5) If you disclose nonpublic personal
information to a nonaffiliated third
party under § 248.13 (and no other exception applies to that disclosure), a
separate statement of the categories of
information you disclose and the categories of third parties with whom you
have contracted;
(6) An explanation of the consumer’s
right under § 248.10(a) to opt out of the
disclosure of nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties,
including the method(s) by which the
consumer may exercise that right at
that time;
(7) Any disclosures that you make
under section 603(d)(2)(A)(iii) of the
Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C.
1681a(d)(2)(A)(iii)) (that is, notices regarding the ability to opt out of disclosures of information among affiliates);
(8) Your policies and practices with
respect to protecting the confidentiality and security of nonpublic personal information; and
(9) Any disclosure that you make
under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Description of nonaffiliated third
parties subject to exceptions. If you disclose nonpublic personal information
to third parties as authorized under
§§ 248.14 and 248.15, you are not required
to list those exceptions in the initial or
annual privacy notices required by
§§ 248.4 and 248.5. When describing the
categories with respect to those parties, it is sufficient to state that you
make disclosures to other nonaffiliated
companies:
(1) For your everyday business purposes such as [include all that apply] to
process transactions, maintain account(s), respond to court orders and

[65 FR 40362, June 29, 2000, as amended at 89
FR 47786, June 3, 2024]

§ 248.6 Information to be included in
privacy notices.
(a) General rule. The initial, annual,
and revised privacy notices that you
provide under §§ 248.4, 248.5, and 248.8
must include each of the following
items of information that applies to
you or to the consumers to whom you
send your privacy notice, in addition to
any other information you wish to provide:
(1) The categories of nonpublic personal information that you collect;
(2) The categories of nonpublic personal information that you disclose;

241

