40256

Federal Register / Vol. 74, No. 153 / Tuesday, August 11, 2009 / Notices

IV. Solicitation of Comments
Interested persons are invited to
submit written data, views, and
arguments concerning the foregoing,
including whether the proposed rule
change is consistent with the Act.
Comments may be submitted by any of
the following methods:

BILLING CODE 8010–01–P

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Electronic Comments
• Use the Commission’s Internet
comment form (http://www.sec.gov/
rules/sro.shtml); or
• Send an e-mail to rulecomments@sec.gov. Please include File
Number SR–NYSEAmex–2009–53 on
the subject line.
Paper Comments
• Send paper comments in triplicate
to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary,
Securities and Exchange Commission,
100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC
20549–1090.

sroberts on DSKD5P82C1PROD with NOTICES

For the Commission, by the Division of
Trading and Markets, pursuant to delegated
authority.8
Florence E. Harmon,
Deputy Secretary.
[FR Doc. E9–19148 Filed 8–10–09; 8:45 am]

[Release No. 34–60437; File No. SR–FINRA–
2009–052]

Self-Regulatory Organizations;
Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, Inc.; Notice of Filing of
Proposed Rule Change To Adopt
FINRA Rule 2264 (Margin Disclosure
Statement) in the Consolidated FINRA
Rulebook
August 5, 2009.

Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(‘‘Act’’) 1 and Rule 19b–4 thereunder,2
notice is hereby given that on July 29,
2009, Financial Industry Regulatory
All submissions should refer to File
Number SR–NYSEAmex–2009–53. This Authority, Inc. (‘‘FINRA’’) (f/k/a
National Association of Securities
file number should be included on the
subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Dealers, Inc. (‘‘NASD’’)) filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission
Commission process and review your
(‘‘SEC’’ or ‘‘Commission’’) the proposed
comments more efficiently, please use
only one method. The Commission will rule change as described in Items I, II,
post all comments on the Commission’s and III below, which Items substantially
have been prepared by FINRA. The
Internet Web site (http://www.sec.gov/
Commission is publishing this notice to
rules/sro.shtml). Copies of the
solicit comments on the proposed rule
submission, all subsequent
change from interested persons.
amendments, all written statements
I. Self-Regulatory Organization’s
with respect to the proposed rule
Statement of the Terms of Substance of
change that are filed with the
the Proposed Rule Change
Commission, and all written
communications relating to the
FINRA is proposing to adopt NASD
proposed rule change between the
Rule 2341 (Margin Disclosure
Commission and any person, other than Statement) with minor changes as
those that may be withheld from the
FINRA Rule 2264 in the consolidated
public in accordance with the
FINRA rulebook. The text of the
provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be
proposed rule change is available on
FINRA’s Web site at http://
available for inspection and copying in
www.finra.org, at the principal office of
the Commission’s Public Reference
Room on official business days between FINRA, and at the Commission’s Public
Reference Room.
the hours of 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. Copies
of such filing also will be available for
II. Self-Regulatory Organization’s
inspection and copying at the principal
Statement of the Purpose of, and
office of the Exchange. All comments
Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule
received will be posted without change; Change
the Commission does not edit personal
In its filing with the Commission,
identifying information from
FINRA included statements concerning
submissions. You should submit only
the purpose of and basis for the
information that you wish to make
proposed rule change and discussed any
available publicly. All submissions
comments it received on the proposed
should refer to File Number SR–
rule change. The text of these statements
NYSEAmex–2009–53 and should be
may be examined at the places specified
submitted on or before September 1,
8 17 CFR 200.30–3(a)(12).
2009.
1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).
2 17 CFR 240.19b–4.

VerDate Nov<24>2008

20:51 Aug 10, 2009

Jkt 217001

PO 00000

Frm 00102

Fmt 4703

Sfmt 4703

in Item IV below. FINRA has prepared
summaries, set forth in sections A, B,
and C below, of the most significant
aspects of such statements.
A. Self-Regulatory Organization’s
Statement of the Purpose of, and
Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule
Change
1. Purpose
As part of the process of developing
a new consolidated rulebook
(‘‘Consolidated FINRA Rulebook’’),3
FINRA is proposing to adopt NASD
Rule 2341 (Margin Disclosure
Statement) with minor changes as
FINRA Rule 2264 in the Consolidated
FINRA Rulebook.
NASD Rule 2341 requires members
that open margin accounts for or on
behalf of non-institutional customers 4
to deliver to such customers, prior to or
at the time of opening the account, a
specified margin disclosure statement to
highlight the risks involved in trading
securities in a margin account. Members
must disclose that the securities
purchased on margin are the firm’s
collateral for the loan and that, if the
securities in the margin account decline
in value, the firm can take action, such
as issuing a margin call and/or selling
securities or other assets in any of the
customer’s other accounts, to maintain
the required equity in the account.
The disclosure statement includes six
specific points of information that must
be disclosed to non-institutional
customers before or at the time a margin
account is opened for or on behalf of
such customer:
3 The current FINRA rulebook consists of (1)
FINRA Rules; (2) NASD Rules; and (3) rules
incorporated from NYSE (‘‘Incorporated NYSE
Rules’’) (together, the NASD Rules and Incorporated
NYSE Rules are referred to as the ‘‘Transitional
Rulebook’’). While the NASD Rules generally apply
to all FINRA members, the Incorporated NYSE
Rules apply only to those members of FINRA that
are also members of the NYSE (‘‘Dual Members’’).
The FINRA Rules apply to all FINRA members,
unless such rules have a more limited application
by their terms. For more information about the
rulebook consolidation process, see Information
Notice, March 12, 2008 (Rulebook Consolidation
Process).
4 For purposes of the rule, a non-institutional
customer means a customer that does not qualify as
an ‘‘institutional account’’ under NASD Rule
3110(c)(4). NASD rule 3110(c)(4) provides, ‘‘the
term ‘institutional account’ shall mean the account
of: (A) A bank, savings and loan association,
insurance company, or registered investment
company; (B) an investment adviser registered
either with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under Section 203 of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 or with a state securities
commission (or any agency or office performing like
functions); or (C) any other entity (whether a
natural person, corporation, partnership, trust, or
otherwise) with total assets of at least $50 million.’’
FINRA is proposing to adopt NASD Rule 3110(c)(4)
as FINRA Rule 4512(c). See Regulatory Notice 08–
25 (May 2008).

E:\FR\FM\11AUN1.SGM

11AUN1

sroberts on DSKD5P82C1PROD with NOTICES

Federal Register / Vol. 74, No. 153 / Tuesday, August 11, 2009 / Notices
• You can lose more funds than you
deposit in the margin account. A
decline in the value of securities that are
purchased on margin may require you to
provide additional funds to the firm that
has made the loan to avoid the forced
sale of those securities or other
securities or assets in your account(s).
• The firm can force the sale of
securities or other assets in your
account(s). If the equity in your account
falls below the maintenance margin
requirements, or the firm’s higher
‘‘house’’ requirements, the firm can sell
the securities or other assets in any of
your accounts held at the firm to cover
the margin deficiency. You also will be
responsible for any short fall in the
account after such a sale.
• The firm can sell your securities or
other assets without contacting you.
Some investors mistakenly believe that
a firm must contact them for a margin
call to be valid, and that the firm cannot
liquidate securities or other assets in
their accounts to meet the call unless
the firm has contacted them first. This
is not the case. Most firms will attempt
to notify their customers of margin calls,
but they are not required to do so.
However, even if a firm has contacted a
customer and provided a specific date
by which the customer can meet a
margin call, the firm can still take
necessary steps to protect its financial
interests, including immediately selling
the securities without notice to the
customer.
• You are not entitled to choose
which securities or other assets in your
account(s) are liquidated or sold to meet
a margin call. Because the securities are
collateral for the margin loan, the firm
has the right to decide which security to
sell in order to protect its interests.
• The firm can increase its ‘‘house’’
maintenance margin requirements at
any time and is not required to provide
you advance written notice. These
changes in firm policy often take effect
immediately and may result in the
issuance of a maintenance margin call.
Your failure to satisfy the call may cause
the member to liquidate or sell
securities in your account(s).
• You are not entitled to an extension
of time on a margin call. While an
extension of time to meet margin
requirements may be available to
customers under certain conditions, a
customer does not have a right to the
extension.
Members also must provide the
margin disclosure statement (or an
abbreviated version as provided by the
rule) to non-institutional margin
account customers not less than once a
calendar year. The rule provides
members with the flexibility to use an

VerDate Nov<24>2008

20:51 Aug 10, 2009

Jkt 217001

alternative disclosure statement to the
language specified in the rule provided
that the alternative disclosures are
substantially similar to the disclosures
specified in the rule. Members must
deliver the initial and annual disclosure
statement, in writing or electronically,
to customers covered by the rule on an
individual basis.
In addition, the rule requires members
that permit non-institutional customers
to open accounts online, or engage in
transactions in securities online, to post
the margin disclosure statement on their
Web sites in a clear and conspicuous
manner. This provision was added to
NASD Rule 2341 in 2002 based on a
recommendation by the General
Accountability Office (GAO) as a means
to allow a broader array of persons to
review the disclosures.
NASD Rule 2341 was approved by the
SEC on April 26, 2001, and was the
product of notice and comment
rulemaking. FINRA proposes to adopt
the requirements set forth in NASD Rule
2341 as FINRA Rule 2264 in the
Consolidated FINRA Rulebook with
minor changes. The minor changes,
consistent with prior interpretive
guidance, clarify that the initial margin
disclosure statement may be furnished
to customers in a separate document (or
contained by itself on a separate page as
part of another document), and that the
annual disclosure statement may be
provided within other documentation,
such as the account statement, and does
not have to be on a separate page.5 In
addition, FINRA is proposing a minor
change to clarify and update the rule
text provisions stating that disclosure
statements may be provided to
individuals either ‘‘in writing or
electronically.’’ Because electronic
documents may be considered a form of
‘‘writing,’’ FINRA is proposing to amend
the text to state that the documents may
be provided ‘‘in paper or electronic
form.’’
FINRA will announce the
implementation date of the proposed
rule change in a Regulatory Notice to be
published no later than 90 days
following Commission approval.
2. Statutory Basis
FINRA believes that the proposed rule
change is consistent with the provisions
5 In 2001, FINRA issued interpretive guidance
that, while the rule requires the initial disclosure
statement to be provided in a separate document,
the disclosure statement can be provided with or as
part of another document provided that it is
contained by itself on a separate page. The
interpretation also clarified that the annual
disclosure statement may be provided within other
documentation, such as the account statement, and
does not have to be on a separate page. Regulatory
and Compliance Alert (Summer 2001).

PO 00000

Frm 00103

Fmt 4703

Sfmt 4703

40257

of Section 15A(b)(6) of the Act,6 which
requires, among other things, that
FINRA rules must be designed to
prevent fraudulent and manipulative
acts and practices, to promote just and
equitable principles of trade, and, in
general, to protect investors and the
public interest. FINRA believes that the
required margin disclosures provide
investors with important information
with which they can better understand
the operation of margin accounts and
the risks associated with margin trading.
B. Self-Regulatory Organization’s
Statement on Burden on Competition
FINRA does not believe that the
proposed rule change will result in any
burden on competition that is not
necessary or appropriate in furtherance
of the purposes of the Act.
C. Self-Regulatory Organization’s
Statement on Comments on the
Proposed Rule Change Received From
Members, Participants, or Others
Written comments were neither
solicited nor received.
III. Date of Effectiveness of the
Proposed Rule Change and Timing for
Commission Action
Within 35 days of the date of
publication of this notice in the Federal
Register or within such longer period (i)
as the Commission may designate up to
90 days of such date if it finds such
longer period to be appropriate and
publishes its reasons for so finding or
(ii) as to which the self-regulatory
organization consents, the Commission
will:
(A) By order approve such proposed
rule change, or
(B) institute proceedings to determine
whether the proposed rule change
should be disapproved.
IV. Solicitation of Comments
Interested persons are invited to
submit written data, views and
arguments concerning the foregoing,
including whether the proposed rule
change is consistent with the Act.
Comments may be submitted by any of
the following methods:
Electronic Comments
• Use the Commission’s Internet
comment form (http://www.sec.gov/
rules/sro.shtml); or
• Send an e-mail to rulecomments@sec.gov. Please include File
Number SR–FINRA–2009–052 on the
subject line.
6 15 U.S.C. 78o–3(b)(6).

E:\FR\FM\11AUN1.SGM

11AUN1

40258

Federal Register / Vol. 74, No. 153 / Tuesday, August 11, 2009 / Notices

Paper Comments
• Send paper comments in triplicate
to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary,
Securities and Exchange Commission,
100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC
20549–1090.
All submissions should refer to File
Number SR–FINRA–2009–052. This file
number should be included on the
subject line if e-mail is used. To help the
Commission process and review your
comments more efficiently, please use
only one method. The Commission will
post all comments on the Commission’s
Internet Web site (http://www.sec.gov/
rules/sro.shtml). Copies of the
submission, all subsequent
amendments, all written statements
with respect to the proposed rule
change that are filed with the
Commission, and all written
communications relating to the
proposed rule change between the
Commission and any person, other than
those that may be withheld from the
public in accordance with the
provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be
available for inspection and copying in
the Commission’s Public Reference
Room, 100 F Street, NE., Washington,
DC 20549, on official business days
between the hours of 10 a.m. and 3 p.m.
Copies of such filing also will be
available for inspection and copying at
the principal office of FINRA. All
comments received will be posted
without change; the Commission does
not edit personal identifying
information from submissions. You
should submit only information that
you wish to make available publicly. All
submissions should refer to File
Number SR–FINRA–2009–052 and
should be submitted on or before
September 1, 2009.
For the Commission, by the Division of
Trading and Markets, pursuant to delegated
authority.7
Florence E. Harmon,
Deputy Secretary.
[FR Doc. E9–19147 Filed 8–10–09; 8:45 am]

sroberts on DSKD5P82C1PROD with NOTICES

BILLING CODE 8010–01–P

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Sections A, B, and C below, of the most
significant aspects of such statements.

[Release No. 34–60444; File No. SR–BX–
2009–044]

A. Self-Regulatory Organization’s
Statement of the Purpose of, and
Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule
Change

Self-Regulatory Organizations;
NASDAQ OMX BX, Inc.; Notice of Filing
and Immediate Effectiveness of
Proposed Rule Change To Amend the
Fee Schedule of the Boston Options
Exchange Facility To Implement The
Non-Penny Pilot Class Pricing
Structure
August 5, 2009.

Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(‘‘Act’’),1 and Rule 19b–4 thereunder,2
notice is hereby given that on July 30,
2009, NASDAQ OMX BX, Inc. (the
‘‘Exchange’’) filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission
(‘‘Commission’’) the proposed rule
change as described in Items I, II, and
III below, which Items have been
prepared by the self-regulatory
organization. The Exchange filed the
proposed rule change pursuant to
Section 19(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act,3 and
Rule 19b–4(f)(2) thereunder,4 which
renders the proposal effective upon
filing with the Commission. The
Commission is publishing this notice to
solicit comments on the proposed rule
from interested persons.
I. Self-Regulatory Organization’s
Statement of the Terms of Substance of
the Proposed Rule Change
The Exchange proposes to amend the
Fee Schedule of the Boston Options
Exchange Group, LLC (‘‘BOX’’). The text
of the proposed rule change is available
from the principal office of the
Exchange, at the Commission’s Public
Reference Room and also on the
Exchange’s Internet Web site at http://
nasdaqomxbx.cchwallstreet.com/
NASDAQOMXBX/Filings/.
II. Self-Regulatory Organization’s
Statement of the Purpose of, and
Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule
Change
In its filing with the Commission, the
self-regulatory organization included
statements concerning the purpose of,
and basis for, the proposed rule change
and discussed any comments it received
on the proposed rule change. The text
of these statements may be examined at
the places specified in Item IV below.
The self-regulatory organization has
prepared summaries, set forth in
1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).
2 17 CFR 240.19b–4.
3 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A)(ii).

7 17 CFR 200.30–3(a)(12).

VerDate Nov<24>2008

20:51 Aug 10, 2009

4 17 CFR 240.19b–4(f)(2).

Jkt 217001

PO 00000

Frm 00104

Fmt 4703

Sfmt 4703

1. Purpose
The Exchange proposes to add the
Non-Penny Pilot Class Pricing Structure
as Section 8 of the BOX Fee Schedule.
The Non-Penny Pilot Class Pricing
Structure will apply to all classes listed
for trading on BOX that are not included
in the Penny Pilot Program, as
referenced in Chapter V, Section 33 of
the BOX Rules (‘‘Non-Penny Pilot
Classes’’).5 The Exchange requests that
the effective date of the proposed rule
change be August 3, 2009.
In proposed Section 8, for Non-Penny
Pilot Classes, the Exchange will charge
a fee of $0.30 for transactions that add
liquidity to the BOX Book and provide
a credit of $0.30 for transactions that
remove liquidity from the BOX Book.
These fees and credits will apply
equally to all account types, whether
Public Customer, Firm or Market Maker
and will be in addition to any
applicable ‘standard’ trading fees and/or
volume discounts, as described in
Sections 1 through 4 of the BOX Fee
Schedule.6
For example, a Public Customer order
is entered into the BOX Trading Host
and executes against a Broker Dealer’s
order resting on the BOX Book. The
Public Customer is the remover of
liquidity and the Broker Dealer is the
adder of liquidity. The Public Customer
will receive a $0.30 credit and the
Broker Dealer will be charged a $0.30
fee according to the Non-Penny Pilot
Class pricing structure. The Public
Customer will receive a $0.30 credit and
the broker dealer will be charged $0.50
(the $0.30 Non-Penny Pilot Class Pricing
Structure removal fee in addition to the
standard $0.20 transaction fee).
The Exchange believes that the
proposed fees are competitive, fair and
reasonable, and non-discriminatory in
5 A recent proposal submitted by the Exchange for
immediately effectiveness removed the following
three (3) exchange-traded fund share classes from
the Liquidity Make or Take pricing structure: (1)
Standard & Poor’s Depositary Receipts® (SPY); (2)
Powershares® QQQ Trust Series 1 (QQQQ); and (3)
iShares Russell 2000® Index Fund (IWM). See
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 60221 (July 1,
2009), 74 FR 32996 (July 9, 2009) (SR–BX–2009–
033). These three classes will remain subject only
to ‘standard’ fees.
6 Corresponding changes to Sections 1, 2, 3, and
4 of the Fee Schedule are being proposed to reflect
the addition of the Non-Penny Pilot Class Pricing
Structure. The Volume Discount will continue to be
applicable for classes not included in The Liquidity
Make or Take Pricing Structure of Section 7 of the
Fee Schedule.

E:\FR\FM\11AUN1.SGM

11AUN1

