
		Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) | Investor.gov
			Skip to main content
          An official website of the United States government
          Here’s how you know
          Here’s how you know
              The .gov means it’s official.
              Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.
              The site is secure.
              The
              https://
              ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
            Investor.gov
            U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
      Search Investor.gov
  Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)
            If your brokerage firm goes out of business, cannot meet its obligation to customers, and is a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), then your cash and securities held by the brokerage firm may be protected up to $500,000, including a $250,000 limit for cash. When a SIPC member becomes insolvent, SIPC will ask a court to appoint a trustee to supervise the firm's liquidation and to process investors' claims.
SIPC, a non-government entity, protects most types of securities, such as stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. But SIPC does not protect you against losses caused by a decline in the market value of your securities. And it does not provide protection for investment contracts not registered with the SEC.
One of the most frequent — and most difficult — issues a SIPC trustee must resolve when a firm goes out of business involves coverage for unauthorized transactions. To qualify for SIPC protection on an unauthorized trade, the investor must demonstrate that the trade was, in fact, unauthorized. That's why it's so important that you send a complaint in writing to your broker as soon as you become aware of an unauthorized transaction. That written complaint is usually the only way to prove that you complained to the firm about unauthorized transactions. If you do nothing — or if your broker persuades you to "ratify" the trade or agree to it after the fact — you will have a difficult time proving that you did not authorize the trade. Always read your account statements carefully and complain promptly in writing about unauthorized transactions.
SIPC Protection does not apply when investors place their cash or securities in the hands of a non-SIPC member. SIPC only protects customers of its member firms. Always make sure that the brokerage firm and its clearing firm are members of SIPC. Firms are required by law to tell you if they're not. You can also search SIPC's Membership Database or contact its Membership Department at the address below to find out whether a firm is a member of SIPC:
Securities Investor Protection Corporation
1667 K St. N.W., Suite 1000
Washington, D.C. 20006-1620
Telephone: (202) 371-8300
Fax: (202) 223-1679
Email: asksipc@sipc.org
You can also protect yourself by making payments only to firms that are members of SIPC. Never make a check out to a sales representative, and never send checks to an address different from the business address of the brokerage firm or a designated address listed in the prospectus.
For more information about SIPC and the protections it provides, please visit SIPC's website, which includes an informational video, “What Is The Securities Investor Protection Corporation?”   You may also want to read FINRA's “Your Rights Under SIPC” webpage.
      Featured Content
  Take This Month's Quiz
    Check your knowledge of Trump Accounts in our September investing quiz!  
  Jumpstart Your Child's Financial Future
    Learn how to enroll in a Trump Account today! 
  Use Financial Tools and Calculators
    Access RMD, compound interest and savings goal calculators plus other financial tools.
  Invest in Your Future. Protect It Today. 
    Learn more about World Investor Week, a global campaign to raise awareness about the importance of investor education and protection.  
            Never stop learning about investing!
Stay up to date with Investor Alerts & Bulletins, Quizzes, and more. 
Get Email Updates from Investor.gov
Sign up for Investor Updates Enter Email Address  
		Return to Top
