Glossary | Investor.gov

Skip to main content

An official website of the United States government

Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know

The .gov means it’s official.

Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.

The site is secure.

The
https://
ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.

Investor.gov

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Auxiliary Header

-
About Us

-
Contact Us

-
Follow Us

-
Glossary

-
Información en Español

Search Investor.gov

Main navigation

-
Introduction to Investing

-
Getting Started

-
Five Questions to Ask Before You Invest

-
Understanding Fees

-
Asset Allocation and Diversification

-
Investing on Your Own

-
Working with an Investment Professional

-
Researching Investments

-
Investing Basics

-
Save and Invest

-
Invest For Your Goals

-
How Stock Markets Work

-
Investment Accounts

-
Investment Products

-
Glossary

-
What is Risk?

-
Role of the SEC

-
General Resources

-
Investor Alerts & Bulletins

-
Publications and Research

-
Financial Tools & Calculators

-
Financial Tools

-
Investment Professional Background Check

-
EDGAR - Search Company Filings

-
Fund Analyzer

-
Retirement Ballpark E$timate

-
Social Security Retirement Estimator

-
Calculators

-
Compound Interest Calculator

-
Savings Goal Calculator

-
Required Minimum Distribution Calculator

-
College Savings Calculator

-
Protect Your Investments

-
Fraud

-
Types of Fraud

-
How to Avoid Fraud

-
Resources for Victims

-
Get Help

-
Submit Questions and Complaints

-
Arbitration and Mediation Clinics

-
Additional Resources

-
Spotlight

-
Common Scams

-
Crypto Assets

-
HoweyTrade

-
Never Stop Learning

-
Public Service Campaign

-
World Investor Week

-
Investing Quizzes

-
Videos

-
Retirement Toolkit

-
First Job

-
Switching Jobs

-
Employer-Sponsored Plans

-
Federal Government Plans

-
Managing Lifetime Income

-
Senior Specialist Designations

-
Social Security

-
Avoiding Retirement Fraud

-
Information For:

-
Students

-
Military

-
Veterans

-
Older Investors

-
Teachers

-
Youth

-
Entrepreneurs

Breadcrumb

-
Home

-
Introduction to Investing

Glossary


# 
| A 
| B 
| C 
| D 
| E 
| F 
| G 
| H 
| I 
| L 
| M 
| N 
| O 
| P 
| Q 
| R 
| S 
| T 
| U 
| V 
| W 
| Y 
| Z 
| ALL 

12b-1 Fees
So-called “12b-1 fees” are fees paid out of fund assets to cover the costs of distribution and sometimes shareholder services. Typically, 12b-1 fees apply to mutual funds but not…

401(k) Plan
An employer-sponsored retirement savings plan that gives employees a choice of investment options, typically mutual funds. Employees who participate in a traditional 401(k) plan have a portion of…

403(B) Plan
A type of tax-deferred retirement savings program available to employees of public schools, certain non-profits, and some members of the clergy.

529 Account Beneficiary
A current or future student for whom the 529 account is established.

529 Account Owner
A person who establishes an account for a student to save money for qualified higher education expenses or tuition for elementary or secondary public, private, or religious schools; also called…

529 Education Savings Plan
A type of 529 plan that lets an account owner open an investment account to save for the account beneficiary’s …

529 Plan Offering Circular
529 plan document that has detailed information about the 529 plan; often called a disclosure statement, disclosure document, program description, or offering document.

529 Plan or Program Manager
A financial services firm — a mutual fund company, a brokerage firm, an investment adviser, or an insurance company — that handles all of the transactions and investments within the plan.

529 Plan Sponsor
A state, a state agency or educational institution that chooses a plan manager and determines the rules and limits for its plan.

529 Plans
A 529 plan is a tax-advantaged savings plan designed to encourage saving for certain educational costs. 529 plans, legally known as “qualified tuition plans,” are sponsored by states, state agencies,…

529 plan, college savings plan, 529 college savings plan, Riley plan

8-K

Public companies file Form 8-K, known as the "current report," to the SEC to announce major events that shareholders should know about, including bankruptcy proceedings, a change in corporate…

Account Fee
A fee that some mutual funds impose on investors for account maintenance. For example, some mutual funds charge this fee on accounts valued at less than a specified dollar amount.…

Accounts – Opening A Brokerage Account
For information on what to expect when opening a brokerage account, including what information you will need to provide, what decisions you will be asked to make, and what questions you should ask…

Accredited Investors
Under the federal securities laws, a company that offers or sells its securities must register the securities with the SEC or find an exemption from the registration requirements. The federal…

Accrued Interest

Interest earned on a security but not yet paid to the investor.

Acquired Fund Fees and Expenses (AFFE)
If a fund invests in the shares of another fund, it must pay the fees and expenses of the underlying fund like any other investor. If your fund invests in the shares of another fund, these underlying…

Active Fund or Actively Managed Fund
An active, or actively managed, mutual fund or …

Advance Fee Fraud
Advance fee frauds ask investors to pay a fee up front – in advance of receiving any proceeds, money, stock, or warrants – in order for the deal to go through. The advance payment may be…

Affinity Fraud
Affinity fraud refers to investment scams that prey upon members of identifiable groups, such as religious or ethnic communities, the elderly, or professional groups. The fraudsters who promote…

After-hours Trading
After-hours trading, also known as extended-hours trading, refers to trading that occurs outside of regular trading hours. Regular trading hours for stocks traded on exchanges and certain other…

All-Or-None Order
An All-Or-None (AON) order is an order to buy or sell a stock that must be executed in its entirety, or not executed at all. AON orders that cannot be executed immediately remain active until…

Alternative Mutual Fund (Alt Fund)
Alternative mutual funds (sometimes called alt funds or liquid alts) are publicly offered, SEC-registered mutual funds that hold non-traditional…

Alternative Trading Systems (ATSs)
Alternative Trading Systems (ATSs) are SEC-regulated electronic trading systems that match orders for buyers and sellers of securities. An ATS is not a…

American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)
The stocks of most foreign companies that trade in the U.S. markets are traded as American Depositary Receipts (ADRs). U.S. depositary banks issue these stocks. Each ADR represents one or more shares…

Anexos 13D y 13G
Los Anexos 13D y 13G comúnmente se denominan “informes de beneficiarios activos.” El término “beneficiario activo” se define bajo las reglas de la SEC e incluye a cualquier persona que comparta…

Annual Meeting

Once-a-year meetings where the chief executive officer reports on the year's results to shareholders. At this meeting, shareholders vote to elect the board of directors and on other corporate…

Annual Report
The annual report to shareholders is a document used by most public companies to disclose corporate information to their shareholders. It is usually a state-of-the-company report, including an…

Annual Report (10K)

A report filed to the SEC by public companies that includes the company's history, audited financial statements, a discussion of products and services, a review of the organization and its…

Annual Return

An annual rate of return is the profit or loss on an investment over a one-year period. There are many ways of calculating the annual rate of return. If the rate of return is calculated on a…

Annuities
An annuity is a contract between you and an insurance company that is designed to meet retirement and other long-range goals, under which you make a lump-sum payment or series of payments. In return,…

Arbitration and Mediation
Arbitration, a form of alternative dispute resolution, is a technique for the resolution of disputes outside the court system. In arbitration, the parties agree to have their dispute heard by…

Arbitration, Challenging a Decision, SEC Role
The SEC cannot act on behalf of a party (such as individual investors) in any arbitration proceeding and cannot overturn or change an arbitration panel's decision. In addition, arbitration decisions…

Arbitration, How To Find a Lawyer Specializing in Securities
If you need help in finding a lawyer who specializes in resolving securities complaints, you may want to try the following:

If you already have a lawyer, consult with them about your options and…

Asset

Any tangible or intangible item that has value in an exchange. A bank account, a home, or shares of stock are all examples of assets.

Asset Allocation
Asset allocation involves dividing your investments among different categories, such as stocks, bonds, and cash.

Asset Classes

Investments that have similar characteristics. The three main asset classes are stocks, bonds, and cash.

Authorized Participants
Financial institutions, which are typically large broker-dealers, who enter into contractual relationships with exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to buy and redeem creation units of ETF shares.

Learn…

Back-end Sales Load
A back-end sales load, also called a deferred sales charge or deferred sales load, is a fee investors pay when they redeem mutual fund shares (that is, sell shares back to the fund). Funds typically…

Balanced Fund
A balanced fund or an asset allocation fund is a mutual fund , …

Banking Regulators
The SEC routinely receives questions and complaints from investors about the investment products they have purchased. But not all investments are considered securities under the securities laws. For…

Bankruptcy
Filing for protection under the federal bankruptcy laws can help companies make plans to repay their debts. A bankrupt company might use Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code to reorganize its…

Bankruptcy for a Public Company
A company may decide to declare bankruptcy when it suffers from crippling debt. Federal bankruptcy laws govern how the assets and business of a company will be used to clear its debts.

There…

Basis Point

One one-hundredth (.01) of a percentage point. For example, eight percent is equal to 800 basis points.

Bear Market

A time when stock prices are declining and market sentiment is pessimistic. Generally, a bear market occurs when a broad market index falls by 20% or more over at least a two-month period.

Beneficial Owner

A beneficial owner holds stocks indirectly, for example, through a bank or broker-dealer. Beneficial owners are sometimes said to be holding shares in "street name."

Bid Price
The term "bid" refers to the highest price a buyer will pay to buy a specified number of shares of a stock at any given time. The term ask refers to the lowest price at which a seller…

Bid Price/Ask Price
The term "bid" refers to the highest price a buyer will pay to buy a specified number of shares of a stock at any given time. The term "ask" refers to the lowest price at which a…

Binary options
A binary option is a type of options contract in which the payout depends entirely on the outcome of a yes/no proposition and typically relates to whether the price of a particular asset will rise…

Blank Check Company
A blank check company is a development stage company that has no specific business plan or purpose or has indicated its business plan is to engage in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified…

Blue Sky Laws
In addition to the federal securities laws, every state has its own set of securities laws—commonly referred to as "Blue Sky Laws"—that are designed to protect investors against fraudulent sales…

Board of Directors

A group of people elected by shareholders to oversee the management of a corporation.

Boiler Room Schemes
Boiler room schemes are large-scale operations designed to lure in as many investors to an investment scam as possible, often using high-pressure sales tactics. Boiler room scheme…

Bond Funds and Income Funds
What is a bond fund?

Bond funds or income funds are a type of investment company (…

Bond Swap
The investor sells one bond and uses the proceeds to buy another bond, often at the same price.…

Bonds
A bond is a debt security, similar to an IOU. Borrowers issue bonds to raise money from investors willing to lend them money for a certain amount of time.

When you buy a bond, you are lending…

Bonds, Corporate
Corporate bonds are bonds issued by companies. Companies issue corporate bonds to raise money for a variety of purposes,…

Bonds, Municipal
Municipal bonds (or “munis” for short) are debt securities issued by states, their political subdivisions (such as cities, towns, counties, and school districts), their agencies and instrumentalities…

Bonds, Selling Before Maturity
Investors who hold a bond to maturity (when it becomes due) get back the face value or "par value" of the bond. But investors who sell a bond before it matures may get a far different amount. For…

Bono de cupón cero
Los bonos de cupón cero son bonos que no pagan intereses durante la vida de los bonos. En vez, los inversionistas compran bonos de cupón cero con un gran descuento de su valor nominal, que es la…

Bonos de Grado de Inversión (o Bonos de Alto Grado)
Son aquellos bonos que se supone tienen un menor nivel de riesgo de impago y que reciben calificaciones más altas por parte de las agencias de calificación crediticia, es decir los bonos clasificados…

Bonos rescatables o redimibles
Los bonos rescatables o redimibles son bonos que el emisor puede rescatar o cancelar antes de la fecha de…

Bonos: venta antes de su vencimiento
Los inversionistas que mantienen un bono hasta el vencimiento (cuando se vence) recuperan el valor nominal o valor de paridad del bono. Pero los inversionistas que venden un bono antes de su…

Bonus Credits for Annuities
In an attempt to attract purchasers, some insurance companies offer variable annuity contracts with "bonus credits." A bonus credit is the extra amount an insurance company agrees to add to the value…

Breakpoint Discounts or Sales Charge Discounts
Some mutual funds that charge front-end sales loads will charge lower sales loads…

Broker
A broker is a

firm or individual
that engages in the business of buying and selling securities – stocks, bonds, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), and certain other investment…

Broker Vote
For certain routine matters to be voted upon at shareholder meetings, if you don’t vote by proxy or at the meeting in person, brokers may vote on your behalf at their discretion. These votes may also…

Broker-Dealers: Record-Keeping Requirements
Investors should always keep good records of their securities transactions, including copies of…

Broker-Dealers: Why They Ask for Personal Information
Brokers generally request personal information from their customers, including financial and tax identification information, to comply with U.S. government laws and rules, as well as rules imposed by…

Brokerage Account – Closing Your Brokerage Account
Generally, either you or your brokerage firm may close your brokerage account at any time. The specific steps you will need to follow to close your account are usually found in the terms and…

Bull Market

A time when stock prices are rising and market sentiment is optimistic. Generally, a bull market occurs when there is a rise of 20% or more in a broad market index over at least a two-month period.

Business Development Companies (BDCs)
BDCs are a type of closed-end investment fund . They are a way for retail investors to…

Buying Long

Purchasing or owning shares of stock, with the expectation that the stock will rise in value.

Calculadora para Bonos de Ahorro
Si usted es dueño de o está considerando comprar un bono de ahorro de los EE.UU., la Oficina del Servicio Fiscal del Departamento del Tesoro ha diseñado una herramienta útil para determinar su…

Callable Bonds (or Redeemable Bonds)

Bonds that can be redeemed or paid off by the issuer prior to the bond's maturity date.

Callable CDs

These give the issuing bank the right to terminate – or "call" – the CD after a set period of time, but they do not give the CD holder the same right. If interest rates fall, the issuing bank might…

Callable or Redeemable Bonds
Callable or redeemable bonds are bonds that can be redeemed or paid off by the issuer prior to the bonds' maturity date.…

Capital Gain

The profit that comes when an investment is sold for more than the price the investor paid for it.

Caregivers - Tips for Protecting Older Investors From Financial Frauds and Scams

If you are a caregiver, it is important to be aware of the warning signs of investment fraud. Be on the lookout for any sudden financial changes, any missing cash, or any unusual account…

Cash

Money that can be used to pay for goods or services.

Cash Account
A cash account is a type of brokerage account in which the investor must pay the full amount for securities purchased. An investor using a cash account is not allowed to borrow funds from his…

CD Call Period

Don't assume that a "federally insured one-year non-callable" CD matures in one year. It doesn't. These words mean the bank cannot redeem the CD during the first year. A "one-year non-callable" CD…

Central Registration Depository (CRD)
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) administers the CRD program, which facilitates the licensing and registration of U.S. securities industry firms and professionals. The CRD…

Certificate of Deposit
A certificate of deposit (CD) is a savings account that holds a fixed amount of money for a fixed period of time, such as six months, one year, or five years. In exchange, the issuing bank or…

Churning
A broker typically earns a portion of the commissions or other fees on each purchase or sale of securities that the brokerage firm makes for an investor.…

Clases de fondos mutuos
Algunos fondos mutuos ofrecen diferentes tipos de acciones para inversionistas llamados “clases”. Cada clase invierte en la misma cartera de valores y tiene los mismos objetivos y políticas de…

Class Actions
A federal securities class action is a court action filed on behalf of a group of shareholders under Rule 23 of the Federal Rules of Civil…

Clean Shares
A class of fund shares without any front-end load ,…

Closed-end Funds
A closed-end fund, legally known as a closed-end investment company, is one of three basic types of …

Closing Price
"Closing price" generally refers to the last price at which a stock trades during a regular trading session. For many U.S. markets, regular trading sessions run from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Eastern…

Collective Investment Trust (CIT)
A collective investment trust (CIT), also called a collective trust fund, is a pooled investment vehicle that combines the money of multiple investors into a single portfolio with a specific…

Comment Letters
From time to time, the SEC invites comments from the public on Proposed Rules , Concept Releases…

Commissions
You will likely pay a commission when you buy or sell stock or other securities, such as mutual fund or ETF shares, through a financial professional. The commission compensates the financial…

Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures (CUSIP)
The Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures (CUSIP) number identifies most securities, including U.S. government and municipal bonds. CUSIP numbers are unique nine-character…

Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)
The Commodity Exchange Act requires certain firms and individuals to be registered with the CFTC. Registration and examination of firms and individuals is conducted on behalf of the CFTC by the…

Compañía de Cheque en Blanco
Una compañía de cheque en blanco es una compañía en etapa de desarrollo que no tiene ningún plan o fin comercial específico o que ha indicado que su plan comercial es participar en una fusión o…

Compañía Pública
Una compañía que presenta sus valores a través de una oferta y ahora esos valores se cotizan en el mercado abierto.

Complaints
The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Assistance (OIEA) receives many types of complaints from individual investors, including complaints against brokers, brokerage firms, investment advisers,…

Compound Interest
Interest paid on principal and on accumulated interest.

Consolidated Tape
The "consolidated tape" is a high-speed, electronic system that reports the latest price and volume data on sales of exchange-listed stocks. The data reflected on the consolidated tape are generated…

Contact the SEC
The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Assistanceprovides a variety of services and tools to address the problems and questions you may face as an investor. We cannot tell you what…

Contingent Deferred Sales Load (CDSL)
Also referred to as a Contingent Deferred Sales Charge (CDSC), this is the most common type of back-end sales load—a fee investors pay when they sell mutual fund shares back to the fund. The amount…

Conversation Starters
We always recommend confirming whether a financial professional is registered using the free search tool at Investor.gov . After confirming that a financial…

Conversion

A feature some funds offer that allows investors to automatically switch from one fund class to another, typically one with lower annual expenses, after a set period of time. The fund's prospectus…

Convertible Securities
A "convertible security" is a security—usually a bond or a preferred stock—that can be converted into a different security—typically shares of the company's common stock. In most cases, the holder of…

Copy Trading
Certain digital platforms enable investors to copy the trades of other investors (known as “copy trading”) in certain types of investments.

Corporate Governance

A framework which may include rules and regulations, corporate charter and bylaws, formal policies, as well as customs and other processes, that determines the leadership, organization, and…

Corporate Reports
Corporate reports can provide important information for investors by, for example, telling you whether a company is making money or losing money and why. You'll find this information in the company's…

Coupon

A feature of a bond that denotes the amount of interest due and the date that the payment will be made.

Coupon Payment

The dollar amount of interest paid to an investor. The amount is calculated by multiplying the interest of the bond by its face value.

Coupon Rate

The interest rate on a bond. It is expressed as a semi-annual rate.

Creation Unit
Large blocks of shares in an ETF, typically 50,000 shares or more, usually sold in in-kind exchanges to Authorized Participants.

Learn…

Credit Rating Agencies

Provide their opinion on the creditworthiness of a corporate or government borrower by issuing a grade, or credit rating, on bonds issued by that borrower.

Crowdfunding Reglamentado
El “crowdfunding” se refiere a un método de financiación donde se recauda dinero solicitando inversiones o contribuciones individuales relativamente pequeñas de un gran número de personas.

Si una…

Cumulative Voting
Cumulative voting is a type of voting system that helps strengthen the ability of minority shareholders to elect a director. This method allows shareholders to cast all of their votes for a single…

Current Yield

The ratio of the interest rate payable on a bond to the actual market price of the bond, stated as a percentage. For example, a bond with a current market price of $1,000 that pays $80 per year…

CUSIP Number
CUSIP stands for Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures. A CUSIP number identifies most financial instruments, including: stocks of all registered U.S. and Canadian companies…

Data Tagging
Data tagging, in formats like XBRL or “eXtensible Business Reporting Language,” is gaining popularity as a way to enhance financial reporting.

By using computer codes to "tag" different kinds of…

Day Order
Unless an investor specifies a time frame for the expiration of an order, orders to buy and sell a stock are “Day” orders, meaning they are good only during that trading day. Day orders that do…

Day Trade
FINRA rules define a “day trade” as the purchase and sale, or the sale and purchase, of the same security on the same day in a margin account. This definition encompasses any security,…

Day Trading
Day traders rapidly buy, sell and short-sell stocks throughout the day in the hope that the stocks continue climbing or falling in value for the seconds or minutes they hold the shares, allowing them…

Debentures

An unsecured bond backed solely by the general credit of a company.

Default

A failure by an issuer to pay principal or interest when due, or to fulfill other obligations, such as reporting requirements.

Deferred Annuity

With a deferred annuity, you make payments to an insurance company, which will be free from taxes until you reach a particular age or a date specified in your contact.

Deferred Sales Charge
A deferred sales charge, also known as a deferred sales load or back-end sales load, is a fee investors pay when they redeem (sell) mutual fund shares. Funds generally use these to compensate brokers…

Defined Benefit Plan

Defined benefit plans also are known as pension plans. Employers sponsor defined benefit plans and promise the plan's investments will provide you with a specified monthly benefit at retirement.…

Defined Contribution Plan

A retirement savings plan, such as a 401(k) plan, that does not promise a specific payment upon retirement. In these plans, the employee or the employer (or both) contribute to the employee's…

Derivatives

Financial instruments whose performance is derived, at least in part, from the performance of an underlying asset, security or index. For example, a stock option is a derivative because its value…

Direct Investment Plans: Buying Stock Directly from the Company
Many companies allow you to buy or sell shares directly through a direct stock plan (DSP). You can also have the cash dividends you receive from the company automatically reinvested into more…

Disaster-related Investment Scams
Natural disasters such as wildfires, floods and hurricanes often give rise to investment scams. These scams can take many forms, including promoters touting companies purportedly involved in…

Disclosure
Information about a company’s financial condition and business that it makes public. Investors can use this information to make informed investment decisions about the company’s securities.

Discount
A bond sold before it matures might not sell at full par value. If it sells below par, it is selling at a discount.Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and other publicly traded funds trade at a discount…

Discount Note

Short-term obligations issued at a discount from face value. Discount notes have no periodic interest payments; the investor receives the note's face value at maturity. For example, a one-year, $1…

Distribution Fees
Distribution fees are paid out of fund assets to cover the marketing and selling of fund shares, such as compensating brokers and others who sell fund shares. These fees also pay for advertising,…

Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees
This category of fees is often simply called 12b-1 fees based on the SEC rule that authorizes a fund to charge them. The rule permits a fund to pay these fees out of fund assets only if the fund has…

Diversification

Diversification is a strategy that can be neatly summed up as "Don't put all your eggs in one basket." The strategy involves spreading your money among various investments in the hope that if one…

Dividend

A portion of a company's profit paid to shareholders. Public companies that pay dividends usually do so on a fixed schedule although they can issue them at any time. Unscheduled dividend payments…

Dollar Cost Averaging
Dollar-cost averaging means investing your money in equal portions, at regular intervals, regardless of the ups and downs in the market. This investment strategy can help you manage risk by following…

DTC Chills and Freezes
Should problems arise with a company or its securities on deposit at The Depository Trust Company (DTC), DTC may impose a “chill” or a “freeze” on all the company’s securities.

A “chill” is a…

Early Withdrawal

If a CD is redeemed before it matures, you may have to pay a penalty or forgo a portion of the interest.

Earnings Per Share

A public company's net profit divided by the number of its common shares.

EDGAR
The SEC’s EDGAR database provides free public access to corporate information, allowing you to quickly research…

Education Savings Plan
A type of 529 plan that lets an account owner open an investment account to save for the account beneficiary’s …

El Valor Neto de Bienes
El “valor neto de bienes” (net asset value o NAV por su sigla en inglés) de una compañía …

Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA)

The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, which is administered by the U.S. Department of Labor. ERISA does not require employers to offer a pension plan. But it does require employers…

Employee Stock Option Plans
An employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) is a retirement plan in which an employer contributes its stock to the plan for the benefit of the company’s employees. This type of plan should not be…

Employee Stock Ownership Plans ESOPs
An employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) is a retirement plan in which an employer contributes its stock to the plan for the benefit of the company’s employees. This type of plan should not be…

Enrollment Fee

Fees that direct-sold college savings plans may charge to join in the program.

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Investing
“ESG” stands for environmental, social, and governance. ESG investing is a way of investing in companies based on their commitment to one or more ESG factors. It is often also called sustainable…

Escheatment by Financial Institutions
All states have established unclaimed property programs to safeguard funds that have been abandoned or left unclaimed for a specified period of time, usually around five years, which require…

Ex-Dividend Dates: When Are You Entitled to Stock and Cash Dividends
To determine whether you should get a dividend, you need to look at two important dates. They are the "record date" or "date of record" and the "ex-dividend date" or "ex-date."

When a company…

Exchange Fee
A fee that some mutual funds impose on shareholders if they exchange (transfer) shares in one mutual fund for shares of another mutual fund within the same mutual fund family .…

Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF)
An ETF is an exchange-traded investment product that must register with the SEC as an open-end investment company (or sometimes as a unit investment trust).ETFs are similar to …

Exchange-Traded Products (ETPs)
Exchange-traded products (ETPs) are investment products that are listed and traded on national securities exchanges. These investment products include exchange-traded funds, exchange-traded…

Executing an Order
When you place an order to buy or sell stock, you might not think about where or how your broker will execute the trade. But where and how your order is executed can impact the overall cost of…

Executive Compensation
The federal securities laws require clear, concise and understandable disclosure about compensation paid to CEOs, CFOs and certain other high-ranking executive officers of public companies. Several…

Exempt Reporting Adviser (ERA)
An exempt reporting adviser is an investment adviser that is not registered with the SEC, but is subject to certain SEC reporting, recordkeeping, and other obligations. For example, an exempt…

Expense Ratio
The percentage of a fund's average net assets used each year to pay the fund’s operating expenses, which can include management fees, distribution and/or service fees (called 12b-1 fees), acquired…

Expense Reimbursement
A fund might agree to reduce fees or expenses, temporarily or indefinitely, by offering investors a fee waiver or expense reimbursement. A fund may do this to attract or maintain investors. These…

Fair Disclosure, Regulation FD
Regulation FD addresses the selective disclosure of information by publicly traded companies and other issuers. Regulation FD provides…

Fechas Ex-Dividendo
Para determinar si usted deberá recibir un dividendo, necesita mirar dos fechas importantes. Éstas son “la fecha de registro” y “la fecha ex-dividendo”.

Cuando una compañía presenta un dividendo,…

Fechas Ex-Dividendo: Cuándo tiene usted derecho a dividendos en forma de acciones y dinero en efectivo
Para determinar si usted deberá recibir un dividendo, necesita mirar dos fechas importantes. Éstas son “la fecha de registro” y “la fecha ex-dividendo”.

Cuando una compañía presenta un dividendo,…

Fee Waiver
A fund might agree to reduce fees or expenses, temporarily or indefinitely, by offering investors a fee waiver or expense reimbursement. A fund may do this to attract or maintain investors. These…

Filing and Registration Fees
The SEC collects fees under various provisions of the securities laws, including the following:

Section 6(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (for registrations of securities);

Section 13(e) of the…

Fill-Or-Kill Order
A Fill-Or-Kill order is an order to buy or sell a stock that must be executed immediately in its entirety; otherwise, the entire order will be cancelled (i.e., no partial execution of the order is…

Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is the accounting standard setter for purposes of the Federal Securities Laws. See GAAP.

Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA)
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a self-regulatory organization for the brokerage industry.

Financial Planners
A financial planner typically prepares financial plans for his or her clients. The kinds of services financial planners offer can vary widely. Some financial planners assess every aspect of your…

Financial Product

Examples of financial products include but are not limited to the following: stocks, bonds, derivatives, and currencies.

Financial Professionals – Background Checks
You should check out the registration status and background of any financial professional before becoming a client, even if a close friend or family member recommends a financial professional. An…

Fixed Annuity

An insurance product that promises a minimum rate of interest while your account is growing. The insurance company also guarantees that the periodic payment will be for a set amount for a fixed…

Fixed-rate Bond

A long-term bond with a set interest rate.

Floating-rate Bond (or Variable or Adjustable rate Bond)

A bond whose interest rate is adjusted periodically according to a predetermined formula; it is usually linked to an interest rate index such as LIBOR.

Floor

The lower limit for the interest rate on a floating-rate bond.

Fondo de acciones
Los términos “fondo de acciones” y “fondo de valores” describen un tipo de empresa de inversión…

Fondos mutuos
Un fondo mutuo es una empresa de inversión o fondo variables. Un fondo de capital…

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) generally prohibits the bribing of foreign officials. The FCPA also requires publicly traded companies to maintain accurate books and records and to have a…

Foreign currency exchange (forex)
A foreign currency exchange rate is a price that represents how much it costs to buy the currency of one country using the currency of another country. Currency traders buy and sell currencies…

Foreign Exchange Markets

Markets that trade currencies.

Form 10-K
The federal securities laws require publicly reporting companies to disclose information on an ongoing basis. For example, domestic companies must submit annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly…

Form 10-Q
The federal securities laws require publicly reporting companies to disclose information on an ongoing basis. For example, domestic issuers must submit annual reports on …

Form 1099, Investment Income (Interest and Dividends)
The federal tax laws require brokerage firms, mutual funds, and other entities to report on Form 1099 all investment income, usually interest or dividends, they have paid to investors during the…

Form 13F -Reports Filed by Institutional Investment Managers
An institutional investment manager that uses the U.S. mail (or other means or instrumentality of interstate commerce) in the course of its business, and exercises investment discretion over $100…

Form 144
This Form must be filed with the SEC by an affiliate of the issuer as a notice of the proposed sale of securities in reliance on…

Form 8-K
In addition to filing annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on …

Form ADV
Form ADV is the uniform form used by investment advisers to register with both the SEC and state securities authorities. The form consists of two parts, both of which are available to the public on…

Form CRS
Form CRS is a client or customer relationship summary. Advisers and brokers are required to deliver a relationship summary to you when starting a relationship with you or when your account changes (e…

Form D
Companies may use an exemption under Regulation D to offer and sell securities without having to…

Forms 3, 4 and 5
The federal securities laws require certain individuals (such as officers, directors, and those that hold more than 10% of any class of a company’s securities, together we’ll call, “insiders”) to…

Formulario 10-K
Las leyes federales de valores exigen que las empresas que informan públicamente comuniquen información en forma continua. Por ejemplo, las empresas nacionales deben presentar informes anuales en el…

Formulario 10-Q
Las leyes federales de valores exigen que las empresas que informan públicamente divulguen información de forma continua. Por ejemplo, los emisores nacionales deben presentar informes anuales en el…

Formulario 1099, ingresos por inversiones (intereses y dividendos)
Las leyes tributarias federales requieren que las firmas de corretaje, fondos mutuos y otras entidades reporten mediante el Formulario 1099 todos los ingresos por inversiones, generalmente en forma…

Formulario ADV
El formulario ADV es el formulario uniforme que utilizan los asesores de inversiones para registrarse tanto en la SEC como en las autoridades estatales de valores. El formulario consta de dos partes,…

Fraudster

A person whose goal is to con people out of their money.

Free look Period

Variable annuity contracts typically have a "free look" period of ten or more days. During this period, you are free to terminate your contract without paying any surrender charges and you will…

Freeriding
In a cash account , an investor must pay for the purchase of a security before selling it. If an investor buys and…

Freeze, Brokerage Account
In a cash account , an investor must pay for the purchase of a security before selling it. If an investor buys…

Front-end Sales Load
A front-end sales load, also called a front-end load or front-end sales charge, is an upfront fee investors pay when they buy mutual fund shares. Funds typically use these fees to compensate brokers…

Fund Family
A fund family is a group of funds that share administrative and distribution systems. They often also share the same brand name or fund family name.…

Fund of Funds
A fund may invest in the shares of one or more other funds to achieve improved asset allocation, diversification, or other investment objectives. A fund that primarily invests in other funds, instead…

Future Value

The value of an asset at a specified date in the future.

Futures contract
An agreement to buy or sell a specific quantity of a commodity or financial instrument at a specified price on a particular date in the future.

Futures Market

Markets that trade futures contracts for commodities such as gold, oil or wheat, as well as financial futures.

Garantías de Firma de Medallón: Previniendo la transferencia no autorizada de valores
Si usted tiene valores en forma de certificado físico y desea transferirlos o venderlos, necesitará firmar los certificados y poderes de valores – un documento legal, aparte de un certificado de…

General Obligation Bond

A municipal bond not secured by any assets; instead it is backed by the issuer's power to tax residents to pay bondholders.

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)

GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) are accounting standards, conventions and rules. It is what companies use to measure their financial results. These results include net income as…

Going Private
A publicly held company generally means a company that has a class of securities that is registered with the SEC because those securities are widely held or traded on a national securities exchange.…

Good-Til-Cancelled Order
A Good-Til-Cancelled (GTC) order is an order to buy or sell a stock that lasts until the order is completed or canceled. Brokerage firms typically limit the length of time an investor can leave a GTC…

Greenwashing
Greenwashing is the act of exaggerating the extent to which products or services take into account environmental and sustainability factors. Funds and advisers that engage in greenwashing may…

Hedge Funds
Like mutual funds, hedge funds pool investors’ money and invest the money in an effort to make a positive return. Hedge funds typically have more flexible investment strategies than mutual…

High-yield Bond (or Junk Bond)
Bonds that are believed to have a higher risk of default and receive low ratings by credit rating agencies, namely bonds rated Ba or below (by Moody's) or BB or below (by S&P and Fitch). These…

High-Yield Investment Programs
High-Yield Investment Programs (HYIP) are unregistered investments typically run by unlicensed individuals – and they are often frauds. The hallmark of an HYIP scam is the promise of incredible…

Holding Your Securities
In general, securities may be held in three different ways. One way is to hold them in certificate form, where the securities are registered in your name on the books of the company, and you…

Holiday Schedules and Trading Hours for the National Securities Exchanges
You can find the holiday schedules and trading hours for the national securities exchanges on each of their websites. You can find links to each exchange’s website here…

Householding Rules
Investors often invest in funds through a variety of individual and family accounts and, as a result, sometimes receive multiple copies of the same documents from those funds. To avoid…

Immediate Annuity

This annuity has no accumulation phase. Instead, you start receiving annuity payments right after you purchase the annuity.

Immediate-Or-Cancel Order
An Immediate-Or-Cancel (IOC) order is an order to buy or sell a stock that must be executed immediately. Any portion of an IOC order that cannot be filled immediately will be cancelled. …

Impersonators
Impersonators may falsely claim to be affiliated with the SEC (or another federal government agency) in an attempt to steal your personal information or your money. Federal government agencies,…

Index Fund
An index fund is a mutual fund , …

Indexed Annuities
An indexed annuity is a type of annuity contract between you and an insurance company. It generally promises to provide interest linked, in part, to the performance of a …

Individual Retirement Account (IRA)
Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) provide tax advantages for retirement savings. You can contribute each year up to the maximum amount allowed by the Internal Revenue Service. There…

Information About Some Companies Not Available From the SEC
Investors are sometimes surprised to learn the SEC does not have information about all companies that offer and sell securities. When a company conducts a registered offering or an exempt offering…

Information Available to Investment Company Shareholders
Before you invest in any registered investment company you should read its prospectus and any…

Informe anual (10K)
Éste es un informe presentado a la SEC por parte de empresas públicas, que incluye el historial de la empresa, sus estados financieros auditados, una descripción de productos y servicios, un repaso…

Initial Public Offering (IPO)
An initial public offering, or IPO, generally refers to when a company first sells its shares to the public. For more information about IPOs generally, see our …

Initial Public Offerings, Why Individuals Have Difficulty Getting Shares
The underwriters and the company that issues the shares control the IPO process. They have wide latitude in allocating IPO shares. The SEC does not regulate the business decision of how IPO shares…

Initial Public Offerings: Eligibility to Get Shares at Broker-Dealers
No brokerage firm can guarantee you will be able to purchase shares in an initial public offering (IPO).

While it can be difficult for individual investors to buy IPO shares, more firms, including…

Initial Public Offerings: Lockup Agreements
Lockup agreements prohibit company insiders—including employees, their friends and family, and large shareholders—from selling their shares for a set period of time after an IPO. In other words…

Insider Trading
Illegal insider trading refers generally to buying or selling a security, in breach of a fiduciary duty or other relationship of trust and confidence, on the basis of material, nonpublic information…

Interest

The price paid for borrowing money. It is expressed as a percentage rate over a period of time.

Interest rates may be fixed, meaning the rate is set and will not change, or may be variable or…

Internet Fraud
The Internet allows individuals or companies to communicate with a large audience without spending a lot of time, effort, or money. Anyone can reach tens of thousands of people by building an…

Interval Fund
An interval fund is a type of investment company that periodically offers to repurchase its shares from shareholders. That is, the fund…

Invest

To engage in any activity in which money is put at risk for the purpose of making a profit.

Investigations
The SEC’s Division of Enforcement conducts investigations into potential violations of the federal securities laws. Common violations include misrepresenting important information about potential…

Investment Adviser
An investment adviser is a

firm or person
that, for compensation, engages

in the business of providing investment advice to others about the value of or about investing in securities –…

Investment Adviser Public Disclosure (IAPD)
The Investment Adviser Public Disclosure (IAPD) database contains registration documents filed by…

Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD)
The Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD ) functions as a one-stop electronic filing system for investment advisers.…

Investment Company
A company or fund that pools money from many investors and invests that money primarily in securities. Each investment company share represents an investor’s part ownership in the fund’s underlying…

Investment-grade Bond (or High-grade Bond)

Bonds that are believed to have a lower risk of default and receive higher ratings by the credit rating agencies, namely bonds rated Baa (by Moody's) or BBB (by S&P and Fitch) or above. These…

Investor Complaints
The SEC receives many types of complaints from individual investors, including complaints against brokers, brokerage firms, investment advisers, transfer agents, mutual funds, and other market…

Issuer

The entity obligated to pay principal and interest on a bond.

Large Cap, Mid Cap, Small Cap
Terms used to describe a company’s size and market value ( market capitalization ).

Late Payment of Interest on Bonds
nvestors sometimes complain to the SEC staff about late payments of interest owed to them on their bonds . The SEC, however,…

Leveraged Loan
Generally speaking, a leveraged loan is a type of loan made to borrowers who already have high levels of debt and/or a low credit rating. Lenders consider leveraged loans to have an above-average…

Liability/Debt

An amount owed to a person or organization for borrowed funds. Loans, notes, bonds, and mortgages are forms of debt. These different forms all call for borrowers to pay back the amount they owe,…

LIBOR
LIBOR is a benchmark interest rate set by input from a panel of banks. LIBOR will…

Lifecycle Funds
A lifecycle fund is a diversified mutual fund or ETF that automatically shifts towards a more conservative mix of investments as it approaches a particular year in the future, known as its "target…

Limit Orders

A limit order is an order to buy or sell a security at a specific price. A buy limit order can only be executed at the limit price or lower, and a sell limit order can only be executed at the limit…

Liquidity (or Marketability)
Liquidity generally refers to how easily or quickly a security can be bought or sold in a secondary market. Liquid investments can be sold readily and without paying a hefty fee to get money when it…

Listing Standards
Before a company’s stock can begin trading on an exchange, the company must meet certain minimum financial and non-financial requirements, or "initial listing standards." Initial listing standards…

Load
A load, also called a sales load or sales charge, is a fee that investors pay when they buy (front-end sales load) or redeem (back-end sales load) shares in a mutual fund, similar to a commission.…

Longevity Annuity
A longevity annuity is a type of fixed annuity. It is often sold to investors around retirement age as a way to protect against outliving their retirement savings. In a longevity annuity contract,…

Lost and Stolen Securities Program
Congress directed the establishment of the Lost and Stolen Securities Program (LSSP) to curtail trafficking in lost, stolen, missing, and counterfeit securities certificates. Rule 17f-1 under…

Lost or Stolen Stock Certificates
Brokerage firms, banks, transfer agents and corporations have procedures in place to help investors replace lost or stolen certificates.

If your securities certificate is lost, accidentally…

Lump Sum Payment
A payment of a sum of money at one time, such as an inheritance.

Lump sum payments can also be referred to as lump sum payouts or financial windfalls. A lump sum…

Maintenance Fee

Fees that direct-sold college savings plans may charge for continued participation in the plan.

Management Fee
A fee paid out of fund assets to the fund's investment adviser (or its affiliates) for managing the fund’s investment portfolio. Management fees may also include administrative fees payable to the…

Manipulación del mercado
La manipulación del mercado ocurre cuando alguien afecta artificialmente la oferta o la demanda de un valor (por ejemplo, haciendo que los precios de las acciones suban o bajen drásticamente).

La…

Margin Account
A “margin account” is a type of brokerage account in which the broker-dealer lends the investor cash, using the account as collateral, to purchase securities. Margin increases investors’…

Margin Call

If you buy on margin and the value of your securities declines, your brokerage firm can require you to deposit cash or securities to your account immediately, or sell any of the securities in your…

Market Capitalization
Market capitalization is the value of a corporation determined by multiplying the current public market price of one share of the corporation by the number of total outstanding shares.

Market Index

A measurement of the performance of a specific "basket" of stocks considered to represent a particular market or sector of the U. S. economy. For example, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) is…

Market Indices

A market index tracks the performance of a specific "basket" of stocks that represent a particular market or economic sector. U.S. examples include the Dow Jones Industrial Average, an index of 30…

Market Makers
A "market maker" is a firm that stands ready to buy or sell a stock at publicly quoted prices.

Learn More .

Market Manipulation
Market manipulation is when someone artificially affects the supply or demand for a security (for example, causing stock prices to rise or to fall dramatically).

Market manipulation may involve…

Market Order

A market order is an order to buy or sell a stock at the current market price. Unless you specify otherwise, your broker will enter your order as a market order. The advantage of a market order is…

Market Volatility Procedures and Circuit Breakers
For information on circuit breakers and other market volatility procedures please read our investor bulletin “ New Measures to…

Markups and Markdowns
When a broker-dealer buys from or sells to you directly securities it holds in its own inventory, the broker-dealer acts as a principal in the transaction. When acting as a principal, the…

Medallion Signature Guarantees: Preventing the Unauthorized Transfer of Securities
If you hold securities in physical certificate form and want to transfer or sell them, you will need to sign the certificates and securities powers--a legal document, separate from a securities…

Mediation and Arbitration
Arbitration, a form of alternative dispute resolution, is a technique for the resolution of disputes outside the court system. The parties to a dispute refer it to arbitration by one or more…

Mergers
Mergers are transactions involving the combination of generally two or more companies into a single entity. The need for shareholder approval of a merger is governed by state law. Typically, a…

Microcap stock
The term “microcap stock” (sometimes referred to as “penny stock”) applies to companies with low or micro market…

Mini-Tender Offers
"Mini-tender" offers are tender offers that, when consummated, will result in the person who makes the tender offer owning less than five percent of a company’s stock. The people behind these offers…

Money Market Fund
Money market funds are a type of mutual fund that invest in…

Money Markets

A market that provides trading in short-term debt.

Mortgage-Backed Securities and Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
Mortgage-backed securities (MBS) are debt obligations that represent claims to the cash flows from pools of mortgage loans, most commonly on residential property. Mortgage loans are purchased from…

Mutual Fund and ETF Fees and Expenses
As with any business, running a mutual fund or ETF involves costs. For example, there are…

Mutual Fund Classes
Some mutual funds offer investors different types of shares, known as "classes." Different types of shares issued by a single fund are sometimes referred to as Class A shares, Class B shares,…

Mutual Fund Prospectus
Mutual funds must provide a copy of the fund’s prospectus to shareholders after they purchase shares, but investors can – and should – request and read the fund’s prospectus before making an…

Mutual Fund Redemptions
Mutual fund shares are redeemable, meaning investors can sell shares back to the fund on any business day. A mutual fund generally must pay redemption proceeds to a shareholder within seven days of…

Mutual Funds
A mutual fund is an SEC-registered open-end investment company that pools money from many investors. It invests the money in stocks, bonds, short-term money-market instruments, other securities or…

Mutual Funds, Past Performance
This year's top-performing mutual funds aren't necessarily going to be next year's best performers. It’s not uncommon for a fund to have better-than-average performance one year and mediocre or below…

National Securities Exchange

A "national securities exchange" is a securities exchange that has registered with the SEC under Section 6 of the Securities…

Nationally Recognized Municipal Securities Information Repositories (NRMSIRs)
Prior to July 1, 2009, a Nationally Recognized Municipal Securities Information Repository (NRMSIR) was an entity, designated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, to which an issuer of…

Net Asset Value
"Net asset value," or "NAV," of an investment company is the company's total assets minus its total…

Net Income
The profit earned by a company after all expenses and taxes have been deducted from revenue . A simple way to think about net income is it’s the price of…

No Action Letters
An individual or entity who is not certain whether a particular product, service, or action would constitute a violation of the federal securities law may request a "no-action" letter from the SEC…

No-Expense or Zero-Expense Funds
Some funds call themselves “no-expense” or “zero-expense” funds or emphasize their low expense ratios without mentioning other costs investors pay—either directly or indirectly— when investing in the…

No-Load Mutual Fund
Some mutual funds identify themselves as “no-load” funds. A no-load mutual fund does not charge any type of sales load. But no-load does not mean no fees. Not every type of shareholder fee is a sales…

Ofertas bajo el Reglamento D
Según las leyes federales de valores, cualquier oferta o venta de un valor debe registrarse ante la SEC o cumplir con una exención. El Reglamento D de la Ley de Valores proporciona una serie de…

Offering Document (or Official Statement or Prospectus)

The disclosure document prepared by a bond issuer that gives detailed financial information about the issuer and the bond offering.

Municipal securities issuers must prepare an “Official…

Old Stock and Bond Certificates
An old stock or bond certificate may still be valuable even if it no longer trades under the name printed on the certificate. The company may have merged with another company or simply changed its…

Online Trading
Although you may save time and money trading online, it does not take the homework out of making investment decisions. To avoid costly mistakes, investors who trade online should understand how…

Open-End Investment Company
The legal name for a mutual fund and most ETFs. An open-end company is a type of investment company.

Learn more .

Operating Expenses
The regular and recurring costs of running the fund that shareholders pay indirectly, which can include management fees, distribution and/or service fees (called 12b-1 fees), and other expenses.…

Options
Options are contracts giving the purchaser the right – but not the obligation -- to buy or sell a security at a fixed price within a specific period of time. Stock options are traded on a number of…

Order Types
There are different types of orders investors can use to buy and sell stocks through a brokerage firm. Order types and trading instructions available to you may differ between brokerage firms.…

Over-The-Counter (OTC) Securities
Over-The-Counter (OTC) securities are securities not listed on a national securities…

Passive Fund or Passively Managed Fund
A passive fund is a mutual fund , …

Pattern Day Trader
FINRA has adopted new intraday margin requirements that replace current day trading margin requirements, including those for "pattern day traders.” The new intraday margin requirements,…

PAUSE Program (Public Alert: Unregistered Soliciting Entities)
The SEC’s PAUSE Program lists: (1) entities that falsely claim to be registered, licensed, and/or located in the United States in their solicitation of investors; (2) fictitious regulators,…

Pension

See Defined Benefit Plan

PIPE Offerings
“PIPE” stands for “private investment in public equity.” In a PIPE offering, investors commit to purchase a certain number of …

Plan de ahorro de educación
Un tipo de plan 529 que permite al titular de una cuenta abrir una cuenta de inversión para ahorrar para los gastos de educación superior calificados del beneficiario de la cuenta o la matrícula para…

Planificación para la Jubilación con Seguro Social
La Administración del Seguro Social tiene herramientas interactivas para ayudarle a calcular qué beneficios de seguro social puede…

Ponzi Schemes
A Ponzi scheme is an investment fraud that pays existing investors with funds collected from new investors. Ponzi schemes are named after Charles Ponzi. In the 1920s, Ponzi promised investors a 50%…

Portfolio

The combined holdings of stock, bond, commodity, real estate and other investments by an individual or institutional investor.

Premium
A bond that sells at a price higher than its principal (par) amount is considered to be selling at a premium.Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and other publicly traded funds trade at a premium when the…

Prepaid Tuition Plans
A type of 529 plan that lets an account owner purchase units or credits at participating colleges or universities for future tuition for the account beneficiary.

Prepayment

The unscheduled partial or complete payment of the principal amount outstanding on a loan, such as a mortgage, before it is due.

Prepayment Risk

The risk that principal repayment will occur earlier than scheduled, forcing the investor to reinvest at lower prevailing rates.

Price-earnings (P/E) Ratio

A company's P/E ratio is a way of gauging whether the stock price is high or low compared to the past or to other companies. The ratio is calculated by dividing the current stock price by the…

Primary Market

Markets in which newly issued securities are sold to investors and the issuer receives the proceeds.

Prime Bank Investments
“Prime bank” investments are scams.

Promoters of “prime bank” programs often claim that investors’ funds will be used to buy and trade supposed “prime bank” instruments, and that investors will…

Principal

The total amount of money being borrowed or lent; the initial amount of money invested.

Product Description

A summary of key information about an ETF that explains how to obtain a prospectus.

Profit

Revenue minus cost; money made on a transaction.

Promissory Notes

Promissory notes are a form of debt that companies sometimes use to raise money. They typically involve investors loaning money to a company in exchange for a fixed amount of periodic income.…

Prospectus
A document that describes the mutual fund or ETF to prospective investors. Every mutual fund and ETF provides a prospectus with information about the mutual fund's investment objectives, risks, past…

Proving Securities Ownership
Proving securities ownership is easier if you can remember how the security was acquired.

Brokerage Firm

If you bought the security through a brokerage firm, contact the firm and ask if they have a…

Proxy Statements
A document sent to shareholders letting them know when and where a shareholders’ meeting is taking place and detailing the matters to be voted upon at the meeting. You can attend the meeting…

Proxy Statements: How to Find
A company is required to file its proxy statements with the SEC no later than the date proxy materials are…

Proxy Voting

A way for shareholders to vote for corporate directors and on other matters affecting the company without having to personally attend the meeting.

Public Company
A company that offers its securities through an offering and now has those securities traded on the open market.

Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB)
The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (also known as the PCAOB) is a private-sector, nonprofit corporation created by the Sarbanes…

Public Documents

Forms 144 from the last 90 days filed in paper are available for public review on Wednesdays from 10am-3:30pm. Visitors are requested to contact Library@sec.gov before they come in to ensure that…

Pump and Dump Schemes
In a pump and dump scheme, fraudsters typically spread false or misleading information to create a buying frenzy that will “pump” up the price of a stock and then “dump” shares of the stock by…

Purchase Fee
A fee that some mutual funds charge when investors buy fund shares. This is not the same as, and may be in addition to, a front-end sales load. A purchase fee is paid to the mutual fund, while a…

Purchasing Power

The amount of goods and services that can be purchased by a given unit of currency, taking into account the effect of inflation.

Pyramid Schemes
A pyramid scheme is an investment fraud in which new participants’ fees are typically used to pay money to existing participants for recruiting new members. Pyramid scheme organizers may pitch the…

Qualified Higher Education Expenses
Qualified higher education expenses can be paid for using money from a 529…

Qualified Longevity Annuity Contract (QLAC)
A longevity annuity is a type of fixed annuity. It is often sold to investors around retirement age as a way to protect against outliving their retirement savings. In a longevity annuity contract,…

Quarterly Reports (10Q)

Each quarter, public companies file reports to the SEC containing unaudited financial statements and information about the company's operations in the previous three months.

Quiet Period
The federal securities laws do not define the term “quiet period.” However, that term is used to refer to the period of time surrounding the filing of a registration statement during which an…

Reagrupación de Acciones
Cuando una compañía completa una reagrupación de acciones, cada acción pendiente de la compañía es convertida en una fracción de una acción. Por ejemplo, si una compañía declara una reagrupación de…

Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT)
Real estate investment trusts (“REITs”) allow individuals to invest in large-scale, income-producing real estate. A REIT is a company that owns and typically operates income-producing real estate or…

Real Return

Real return is what is earned on an investment after accounting for taxes and inflation. Real returns are lower than nominal returns, which do not subtract taxes and inflation.

Rebalancing

Rebalancing brings a portfolio back to its original asset allocation mix. This is necessary because over time, some investments will grow faster than others, and holdings may become out of…

Recovering Funds
Investors who are victims of securities law violations may be eligible to receive money recovered from fraudsters. Sometimes a successful SEC enforcement action results in recovered funds being…

Redemption Fee
A shareholder fee that some mutual funds charge when investors redeem mutual fund shares (that is, sell shares back to the fund). A redemption fee, which is paid to the fund, is not the same as and…

Registered Index-Linked Annuity (RILA)
A registered index-linked annuity (RILA) is a type of indexed annuity that is a security…

Registered Market Value Adjustment (MVA) Annuity
A registered market value adjustment (MVA) annuity is a type of non-variable annuity that is a security and therefore regulated by the SEC. It is a contract between you and an insurance company that…

Registered Owner

A registered owner or record holder holds stocks directly with the company, rather than in "street name." Registration Statement -- By law, public companies in the U.S. must disclose important…

Registration Statement
A registration statement is a filing with the SEC making required disclosures in connection with the registration of a security, a…

Registration Under the Securities Act of 1933
The Securities Act of 1933 has two basic objectives:

To require that investors receive financial and other significant information concerning securities being offered for public sale; and
To…

Registro bajo la Ley de Valores de 1933
La Ley de Valores de 1933 tiene dos objetivos primarios:

Exigir que los inversionistas reciban información financiera, así como otra información relevante respecto a los valores ofrecidos para la…

Regla 506 del Reglamento D
La Regla 506 del …

Reglamento 144 del Acta de Valores
Las leyes federales de valores pueden clasificar ciertos valores como restringidos o de control. La venta de valores restringidos o de control en el mercado puede ser un proceso complicado. Bajo las…

Regulación A
Según las leyes federales de valores, cualquier oferta o venta de un valor debe registrarse en la SEC o calificar como exención. La …

Regulation A
Under the federal securities laws, any offer or sale of a security must either be registered with the SEC or meet an exemption. …

Regulation Crowdfunding
Crowdfunding refers to a financing method in which money is raised through soliciting relatively small individual investments or contributions from a large number of people.

If a…

Regulation D Offerings
Under the federal securities laws, any offer or sale of a security must either be registered with the SEC or meet an exemption. …

Relationship Summary
Form CRS is a client or customer relationship summary. Advisers and brokers are required to deliver a relationship summary to you beginning in summer 2020. The relationship summary contains important…

Restricted Securities
Restricted securities are securities acquired in an unregistered, private sale from the issuing company or from an affiliate of the issuer. They typically bear a “restrictive” legend clearly stating…

Revenue
The total amount of money, or gross income, generated by a company from selling its goods and services. A simple way to think about revenue is it’s the price of a widget multiplied by the number of…

Revenue Bond

A municipal bond not backed by the government's taxing power but by revenues from a specific project or source, such as highway tolls or lease fees.

Reverse Stock Splits
When a company completes a reverse stock split, each outstanding share of the company is converted into a fraction of a share. For example, if a company declares a one for ten reverse stock…

Risk

In finance, risk refers to the degree of uncertainty about the rate of return on an asset and the potential harm that could arise when financial returns are not what the investor expected. In…

Risk Tolerance

An investor's ability and willingness to lose some or all of an investment in exchange for greater potential returns.

Robo-Adviser
The term “robo-adviser” generally refers to an automated digital investment advisory program. In most cases, the robo-adviser collects information regarding your financial goals, investment…

Roth 401(k) Plan

An employer-sponsored Roth 401(k) plan is similar to a traditional plan with one major exception. Contributions by employees are not tax deferred but are made with after-tax dollars. Income earned…

Rule 504 of Regulation D
Rule 504 of …

Rule 506 of Regulation D
Rule 506 of …

Rulemaking
Rulemaking is the process that federal agencies use to make rules. Rules are requirements created by federal agencies that help clarify or implement laws passed by Congress and signed by the…

Sales Charge or Sales Load
A sales charge, also called a sales load or load, is a fee investors pay when they buy (front-end sales load) or redeem (back-end sales load) shares in a mutual fund, similar to a commission.…

Saving and Investing Apps
“Saving and investing app” may refer to a variety of different mobile applications that use technology to help you save and invest. These apps are often marketed as an easy way to get started saving…

Savings

Income that is not spent on consumption but is put aside.

Savings Bond Calculator
If you own or are considering purchasing a U.S. savings bond, the U.S. Department of Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service has designed a useful tool for determining the present and future value-…

Savings Bonds
Savings bonds are debt securities issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to help pay for the U.S. government’s borrowing needs. U.S. savings bonds are considered one of the safest investments…

Say-on-pay Vote
Required by law, most public companies must periodically (at least every three years) provide their shareholders with an advisory vote on the compensation of the most highly compensated executives.…

Schedules 13D and 13G
Schedules 13D and 13G are commonly referred to as a “beneficial ownership reports.” The term "beneficial owner" is defined under SEC rules. It includes any person who directly or indirectly shares…

Secondary Market

Markets where existing securities are bought and sold.

Section 1035

This part of the U.S. tax code allows you to exchange an existing variable annuity contract for a new annuity contract without paying tax on the income and investment gains in your current account.…

Securities Act Rule 144
Federal securities laws may deem certain securities as restricted or control securities. Selling restricted or control securities in the marketplace can be a complicated process. Under federal…

Securities Analyst Recommendations
Analyst recommendations can have a significant effect on a company’s stock price, especially when the recommendations are widely disseminated through television appearances or other electronic and…

Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC)
If your brokerage firm goes out of business, cannot meet its obligation to customers, and is a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), then your cash and securities held by…

Securities Lending
Securities lending is the market practice where securities are transferred temporarily from a securities lender to a securities borrower for a fee.

Securities lenders are generally large…

Security

An investment instrument such as a stock or bond.

Senior Bond

A bond that has a higher priority than another bond's claim to the same class of assets in case of a default or bankruptcy. Settlement Date -- The agreed date for the delivery of bonds and payment…

Settling Securities Transactions, T+2
Investors must complete or "settle" their security transactions within two business days. This settlement cycle is known as "T+2," shorthand for "trade date plus two days."

T+2 means that when…

Share Classes
Different types of shares issued by a single fund, sometimes referred to as Class A shares, Class B shares, and so on. All classes of a fund hold identical investments and have the same investment…

Shareholder Fees
Shareholder fees are mutual fund costs charged directly to investors. They include fees in connection with particular investor transactions such as buying, selling, or exchanging shares (charged at…

Shareholder Lists, When You Can Get Them
Although investors sometimes ask the SEC for a list of a company's shareholders, the SEC does not maintain shareholder lists.

Under SEC rules, a company must provide shareholders with a process for…

Shareholder Service Fees
Shareholder service fees compensate individuals who respond to inquiries from investors and provide them with information about their investments. Typically, shareholder service fees apply to mutual…

Short Sale Volume and Transaction Data
To increase the transparency surrounding short sale transactions, several self-regulatory organizations (SROs) are…

Short Sales
A short sale occurs when you sell stock you do not own. Investors who sell short believe the price of the stock will fall. If the price drops, you can buy the stock at the lower price and make a…

Short Sales
A short sale generally involves the sale of a stock you do not own (or that you will borrow for delivery). Short sellers believe the price of the stock will fall, or are seeking to hedge…

Single-stock ETFs
Single-stock ETFs are a complex type of…

Social Security Retirement Planner
The Social Security Administration has interactive tools to help you calculate what social security benefits you can…

SOFR
SOFR stands for Secured Overnight Financing Rates . SOFR is a broad measure of the…

Sources of Municipal Securities Information
Most municipal securities offerings are exempt from the registration provisions of the federal securities laws. That means municipal issuers do not have to file a registration statement with…

SPACs
“SPAC” stands for special purpose acquisition company, and it is a type of blank check company .…

Spin-Offs
In a "spin-off," a parent company distributes shares of a subsidiary to the parent company's shareholders so that the subsidiary becomes a separate, independent company. The shares are usually…

Standard & Poor's Depositary Receipts (SPDR) Trust

An ETF designed to replicate the performance of the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. Because of its acronym, the SPDR instrument is referred to as a "spider."

State Regulators
In addition to state securities regulators , there are a number of state agencies that may…

State Securities Regulators
While the SEC regulates and enforces the federal securities laws, each state has its own securities regulator who enforces what are known as …

Statement of Additional Information (SAI)
Statements of additional information (SAIs) convey information about a fund in addition to what is available in the prospectus. Mutual funds, ETFs, registered closed-end funds, and some variable…

Stock
A share of stock is an instrument that signifies an ownership position (called equity) in a corporation, and a claim on its proportional share in the corporation's assets and profits. Most stocks…

Stock Fund
A stock fund or equity fund is a mutual fund , …

Stock Market

A general term for the organized trading of stocks through exchanges, over-the-counter, and computerized trading venues.

Stock Market Circuit Breakers
Market-Wide Circuit Breakers – The securities and futures exchanges have procedures for coordinated cross-market trading halts if a severe market price decline reaches levels that may exhaust…

Stock Quotes

Listings of prices to buy and sell a specific stock. During trading, quotes show bids, the prices buyers are willing to pay, and offers, the prices sellers are willing to accept. Historical data…

Stock Split

An increase in the number of shares of a corporation's stock without a change in the shareholders' equity. Companies often split shares of their stock to make them more affordable to investors.…

Stop Order

A stop order is an order to buy or sell a stock once the price of the stock reaches a specified price, known as the stop price. When the specified price is reached, your stop order becomes a market…

Surrender Charge
A type of transaction fee that applies if you withdraw some or all of your money from a variable annuity within a certain period of time, such as six to ten years, following each premium payment…

Target Date Fund
A diversified fund, often a mutual fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF), that automatically shifts towards a more conservative mix of investments as it approaches a particular year in the future, known…

TDF, target date retirement fund

Tarifas y gastos de fondos mutuos
Como ocurre con cualquier negocio, administrar un fondo mutuo implica costos. Por ejemplo, existen…

Tax Questions
Investors sometimes contact the SEC asking about the tax consequences when they sell securities. In particular, investors want to know whether they will have to pay a capital gains tax or can…

Tender Offer
A tender offer is typically an active and widespread solicitation by a company or third party (often called the “bidder” or “offeror”) to purchase a substantial percentage of the company’s securities…

Threshold Securities
Threshold securities are equity securities that have an aggregate fail to deliver position for:

Five consecutive settlement days at a…

Ticker

Each publicly traded common stock in the U.S. receives a short abbreviation that identifies it, known as its stock symbol or stock ticker symbol. Some stocks have single-letter ticker symbols while…

Time Horizon

Your time horizon is the number of months, years, or decades you need to invest to achieve your financial goal.

Total Annual Fund Operating Expenses
All of a fund's annual operating expenses combined, which can include management fees, distribution and/or service fees (called 12b-1 fees), and other expenses. You'll find this total in the fund's…

Trading Halts and Delays
There are two types of trading halts and delays -- regulatory and non-regulatory. The most common regulatory halt and delay happens when a company has pending news that may affect the security’s…

Tráfico de Información Privilegiada
El tráfico de información privilegiada generalmente se refiere a la compra o venta de un valor, en contravención de una obligación fiduciaria u otra relación de confianza y fiabilidad, basándose en…

Transfer Agents
Transfer agents work for the security issuer to record changes of ownership, maintain the issuer's security holder records, cancel and issue certificates, and distribute dividends. Transfer…

Transferring Assets
There are at least two ways to transfer assets from one person to another, including Transfer on Death (TOD) Registration, which allows you to pass the securities you own directly to another person…

Transferring Your Brokerage Account
All brokerage account transfers start and end with your new firm. Customers initiate the transfer process by completing a Transfer Instruction Form (TIF) and sending it to the new firm.…

Treasury Securities
Treasury securities—including Treasury bills, notes, and bonds—are debt obligations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Treasury securities are considered one of the safest investments…

Trusted Contact

A trusted contact is a person that you authorize your brokerage firm to contact in limited circumstances, such as if your broker has trouble reaching you or has a reasonable belief that your…

Trustee

An institution, usually a bank, designated by the issuer as the custodian of funds and official representative of bondholders.

Ultra-Short Bond Funds
Ultra-short bond funds are mutual funds that generally invest in fixed income securities with extremely short maturities,…

Unit Investment Trusts (UITs)
A unit investment trust UIT is one of three basic types of investment companies . The other two types are open-end…

Variable Annuities
A variable annuity is a type of annuity contract between you and an insurance company that is a security and therefore regulated by the SEC. A variable annuity offers a range of investment options,…

Variable Annuities - Free Look Period
You may cancel your contract within a short period (usually lasting at least 10 days) of receiving it without a surrender charge. Upon cancellation, you will typically receive a refund of your…

Variable Life Insurance
A variable life insurance policy is a contract between you and an insurance company. It is intended to meet certain insurance needs, investment goals, and tax planning objectives. It is a policy that…

Variable-rate CDs

These have changeable interest rates. Some variable-rate CDs feature a "multi-step" or "bonus rate" structure in which interest rates increase or decrease over time according to a pre-set schedule.…

Viatical Settlements
A viatical settlement allows you to invest in another person's life insurance policy. With a viatical settlement, you purchase the policy (or part of it) at a price that is less than the death…

Wash Sales
A wash sale occurs when you sell or trade securities at a loss and within 30 days before or after the sale you:

Buy substantially identical securities,

Acquire substantially identical securities in…

Wrap Account
A wrap account is an investment account where a "wrapped" fee or fees cover all of the…

Yield

The annual percentage rate of return earned on a bond calculated by dividing the coupon interest rate by its purchase price.

Yield Curve

A line graph that shows the relative yields on debt over a range of maturities from three months to 30 years. Investors, analysts and economists use yield curves to evaluate bond markets and…

Zero Coupon Bond
Zero coupon bonds are bonds that do not pay interest during the life of the bonds. Instead, investors buy zero coupon bonds at a deep discount from their face value, which is the amount the investor…

Never stop learning about investing!
Stay up to date with Investor Alerts & Bulletins, Quizzes, and more.

Get Email Updates from Investor.gov

Sign up for Investor Updates Enter Email Address

Site Information

-
SEC.gov

-
MyMoney.gov

-
FOIA

-
Plain Writing

-
Privacy

-
Vulnerability Disclosure Policy

-
USA.gov

-
Disclaimer

-
Multilingual Disclaimer

Return to Top