
		Settling Securities Transactions, T+2 | Investor.gov
			Skip to main content
          An official website of the United States government
          Here’s how you know
          Here’s how you know
              The .gov means it’s official.
              Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.
              The site is secure.
              The
              https://
              ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
            Investor.gov
            U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
      Search Investor.gov
  Settling Securities Transactions, T+2
            Investors must complete or "settle" their security transactions within two business days. This settlement cycle is known as "T+2," shorthand for "trade date plus two days." 
T+2 means that when you buy a security, your payment must be received by your brokerage firm no later than two business days after the trade is executed. When you sell a security, you must deliver to your brokerage firm your securities certificate no later than two business days after the sale. 
The two-day settlement date applies to most security transactions, including stocks, bonds, municipal securities, mutual funds traded through a brokerage firm, and limited partnerships that trade on an exchange. Government securities and stock options settle on the next business day following the trade. 
Click here to read our Investor Bulletin: New “T+2” Settlement Cycle – What Investors Need to Know.
      Featured Content
  Take This Month's Quiz
    Check your knowledge of Trump Accounts in our September investing quiz!  
  Jumpstart Your Child's Financial Future
    Learn how to enroll in a Trump Account today! 
  Use Financial Tools and Calculators
    Access RMD, compound interest and savings goal calculators plus other financial tools.
  Invest in Your Future. Protect It Today. 
    Learn more about World Investor Week, a global campaign to raise awareness about the importance of investor education and protection.  
            Never stop learning about investing!
Stay up to date with Investor Alerts & Bulletins, Quizzes, and more. 
Get Email Updates from Investor.gov
Sign up for Investor Updates Enter Email Address  
		Return to Top
