
		About Us | Investor.gov
			Skip to main content
          An official website of the United States government
          Here’s how you know
          Here’s how you know
              The .gov means it’s official.
              Federal government websites often end in .gov or .mil. Before sharing sensitive information, make sure you’re on a federal government site.
              The site is secure.
              The
              https://
              ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
            Investor.gov
            U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
      Search Investor.gov
      About Us
            The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Assistance (OIEA) seeks to provide individual investors with the information and tools they need to make sound investment decisions. 
OIEA promotes this mission through two primary functions: (1) conducting educational outreach to individual investors, and (2) assisting investors with complaints and questions about the securities markets and market participants.
OIEA’s investor education program includes in-person outreach, digital and social media, and other communication channels, including the SEC’s website for individual investors, Investor.gov. OIEA’s outreach efforts target different segments of the population, from students and teachers to older investors, military service members and veterans. OIEA also issues Investor Alerts and Bulletins to inform individual investors about different permutations of fraud, new investment products, and other topical issues.  
OIEA’s investor assistance program serves the tens of thousands of investors who contact the SEC each year with investment-related complaints and questions. Investors seek assistance by calling 800-732-0330 or using OIEA’s online forms. 
Watch our "Welcome to Investor.gov" video below.  
      Featured Content
  Take This Month's Quiz
    Check your knowledge of Trump Accounts in our September investing quiz!  
  Jumpstart Your Child's Financial Future
    Learn how to enroll in a Trump Account today! 
  Use Financial Tools and Calculators
    Access RMD, compound interest and savings goal calculators plus other financial tools.
  Invest in Your Future. Protect It Today. 
    Learn more about World Investor Week, a global campaign to raise awareness about the importance of investor education and protection.  
            Never stop learning about investing!
Stay up to date with Investor Alerts & Bulletins, Quizzes, and more. 
Get Email Updates from Investor.gov
Sign up for Investor Updates Enter Email Address  
		Return to Top
