
    Retirement topics - IRA contribution limits | Internal Revenue Service
      Skip to main content
      An official website of the United States government
      Here's how you know
    Here's how you know
          Official websites use .gov
          A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
          Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
          A lock
          ()
          or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
      English
    Español
中文 (简体)
中文 (繁體)
한국어
Русский
Tiếng Việt
Kreyòl ayisyen
                          Search
                          Menu
            Search
            Include Historical Content
    - Any -No
            Include Historical Content
    - Any -No
Search
    File
    Overview
INFORMATION FOR…
Individuals
Business and self-employed
Charities and nonprofits
International filers
Retirement
Governments and tax-exempt bonds
Indian Tribal Governments
FILING FOR INDIVIDUALS
How to file
When to file
Where to file
Update your information
POPULAR
Tax record (transcript)
Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)
Amend return
Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN)
    Pay
    Overview
PAY BY
Bank Account (Direct Pay)
Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)
POPULAR
Your Online Account
Tax Withholding Estimator
Estimated Taxes
Penalties
    Refunds
    Overview
About refunds
Direct deposit
Reduced refunds
Where’s my amended return?
    Credits & Deductions
    Overview
INFORMATION FOR...
Individuals
Businesses & Self-Employed
POPULAR
Earned Income Credit (EITC)
Child Tax Credit
Clean Energy and Vehicle Credits
Standard Deduction
Retirement Plans
    Forms
    Overview
POPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONS
Form 1040
Form 1040 Instructions
Form W-9
Form 4506-T
Form W-4
Form 941
Form W-2
Form 9465
POPULAR FOR TAX PROS
Form 1040-X
Form 2848
Form W-7
Circular 230
    Report Fraud
    Overview
Tax fraud and scams
Identity theft
Fake IRS email or message
Tax return preparer
            Search
            Include Historical Content
    - Any -No
            Include Historical Content
    - Any -No
Search
              Retirement topics - IRA contribution limits
        English
Español
中文 (简体)
中文 (繁體)
한국어
Русский
Tiếng Việt
Kreyòl ayisyen
		      More In Retirement Plans
        IRAs
        Types of retirement plans
        Required minimum distributions
        Published guidance
        Forms and publications
        Operate a retirement plan
        News
        Topic index
            Note: For other retirement plans contribution limits, see Retirement Topics – Contribution Limits.
For 2026, the total contributions you make each year to all of your traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs can’t be more than:
	$7,500 ($8,600 if you’re age 50 or older), or
	If less, your taxable compensation for the year
For 2025 and 2024, the total contributions you make each year to all of your traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs can't be more than:
	$7,000 ($8,000 if you're age 50 or older), or
	If less, your taxable compensation for the year
For 2023, the total contributions you make each year to all of your traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs can't be more than:
	$6,500 ($7,500 if you're age 50 or older), or
	If less, your taxable compensation for the year
The IRA contribution limit does not apply to:
	Rollover contributions
	Qualified reservist repayments
Deducting your IRA contribution
Your traditional IRA contributions may be tax-deductible. The deduction may be limited if you or your spouse is covered by a retirement plan at work and your income exceeds certain levels.
	IRA deduction limits
Roth IRA contribution limit
In addition to the general contribution limit that applies to both Roth and traditional IRAs, your Roth IRA contribution may be limited based on your filing status and income.
	2024 - Amount of Roth IRA Contributions You Can Make for 2024
	2023 - Amount of Roth IRA Contributions You Can Make for 2023
IRA contributions after age 70½
For 2020 and later, there is no age limit on making regular contributions to traditional or Roth IRAs.
For 2019 and earlier, if you’re 70 ½ or older, you can't make a regular contribution to a traditional IRA. However, you can still contribute to a Roth IRA and make rollover contributions to a Roth or traditional IRA regardless of your age.
Spousal IRAs
If you file a joint return, you may be able to contribute to an IRA even if you didn’t have taxable compensation as long as your spouse did. Each spouse can make a contribution up to the current limit; however, the total of your combined contributions can’t be more than the taxable compensation reported on your joint return. See the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA Limit in Publication 590-A.
If neither spouse participated in a retirement plan at work, all of your contributions will be deductible.
Can I contribute to an IRA if I participate in a retirement plan at work?
You can contribute to a traditional or Roth IRA even if you participate in another retirement plan through your employer or business. However, you may not be able to deduct all of your traditional IRA contributions if you or your spouse participates in another retirement plan at work. Roth IRA contributions might be limited if your income exceeds a certain level.
Examples
	Danny, an unmarried college student earned $3,500 in 2020. Danny can contribute $3,500, the amount of his compensation, to his IRA for 2020. Danny's grandmother can make the contribution on his behalf.
	John, age 42, has a traditional IRA and a Roth IRA. He can contribute a total of $6,000 to either one or both for 2020.
	Sarah, age 50, is married with no taxable compensation for 2020. She and her spouse, age 48, reported taxable compensation of $60,000 on their 2020 joint return. Sarah may contribute $7,000 to her IRA for 2020 ($6,000 plus an additional $1,000 contribution for age 50 and over). Her spouse may also contribute $6,000 to an IRA for 2020.
Tax on excess IRA contributions
An excess IRA contribution occurs if you:
	Contribute more than the contribution limit.
	Make a regular IRA contribution for 2019, or earlier, to a traditional IRA at age 70½ or older.
	Make an improper rollover contribution to an IRA.
Excess contributions are taxed at 6% per year for each year the excess amounts remain in the IRA. The tax can't be more than 6% of the combined value of all your IRAs as of the end of the tax year.
To avoid the 6% tax on excess contributions, you must withdraw:
	the excess contributions from your IRA by the due date of your individual income tax return (including extensions); and
	any income earned on the excess contribution.
See Publication 590-A for certain conditions that may allow you to avoid including withdrawals of excess contributions in your gross income.
Related
	Publication 590-A, Contributions to Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs)
	Publication 590-B, Distributions from Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs)
	IRA Deduction Limits
	Retirement Plans FAQs regarding IRAs
	IRA Year-End Reminders
                                                                            Page Last Reviewed or Updated: 23-Sep-2026
      ShareFacebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Print
