Contents
Future Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Publication 575

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

Pension and
Annuity
Income

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

For use in preparing

2025 Returns

General Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Variable Annuities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Section 457 Deferred Compensation Plans . . . . . . 5
Disability Pensions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety
Officers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Railroad Retirement Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Withholding Tax and Estimated Tax . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Cost (Investment in the Contract) . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Taxation of Periodic Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Fully Taxable Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Partly Taxable Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Figuring the Taxable Amount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Loans Treated as Distributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Transfers of Annuity Contracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Lump-Sum Distributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Rollovers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Special Additional Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Tax on Early Distributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Early Distribution Repayments . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Tax on Excess Accumulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Survivors and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Disaster-Related Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Qualified Disaster Recovery Distributions . . . . . . 35
Taxation of Qualified Disaster Recovery
Distributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Repayment of Qualified Disaster Recovery
Distributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Recontribution of Qualified Distributions for
the Purchase or Construction of a Main
Home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Loans From Qualified Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Worksheet A. Simplified Method . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Recapture Allocation Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45

Future Developments
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Nov 6, 2025

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 575, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub575.

Publication 575 (2025) Catalog Number 15142B
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

Reminders
Distributions to victims of domestic abuse. Beginning
with distributions made after December 31, 2023, a distribution to a domestic abuse victim is not subject to the
10% additional tax on early distributions if the distribution
meets certain requirements. For more information, see
Distributions to victims of domestic abuse, later.
Distributions for emergency personal expenses. Beginning with distributions made after December 31, 2023,
a distribution to an individual for certain emergency personal expenses is not subject to the 10% additional tax on
early distributions if certain requirements are met. For
more information, see Distributions for emergency personal expenses, later.
Transfers and rollovers of assets and the substantially equal payment method. Beginning after December 31, 2023, certain transfers and rollovers of assets from
qualified plans or annuity contracts using the substantially
equal periodic payment method are not considered a
modification of the distribution method if certain requirements are met. For more information, see Transfers and
Rollovers of Assets, later.
The direct payment requirement for certain distributions for payment of health or long-term care insurance repealed. Distributions from governmental plans to
an eligible retired public safety officer made after December 29, 2022, for health and long-term care insurance can
be excluded from that eligible retired public safety officer’s
gross income.
These distributions are excluded from gross income
whether the premiums are paid directly to the provider of
the accident or health plan or qualified long-term care insurance contract by deduction from a distribution from the
eligible retirement plan or if the distributions are made to
the eligible retired public safety officer to pay premiums to
an accident or health plan (or a qualified long-term care
insurance contract).
The amount which may be excluded from gross income
for the tax year can’t exceed the lesser of $3,000 or the
amount paid for the insurance.
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
This publication discusses the tax treatment of distributions you receive from pension and annuity plans and also
shows you how to report the income on your federal income tax return. How these distributions are taxed depends on whether they are periodic payments (amounts
received as an annuity) that are paid at regular intervals
2

over several years or nonperiodic payments (amounts not
received as an annuity).
What is covered in this publication? This publication
contains information that you need to understand the following topics.

• How to figure the tax-free part of periodic payments

under a pension or annuity plan, including using a
simple worksheet for payments under a qualified plan.

• How to figure the tax-free part of nonperiodic pay-

ments from qualified and nonqualified plans, and how
to use the optional methods to figure the tax on
lump-sum distributions from pension, stock bonus,
and profit-sharing plans.

• How to roll over certain distributions from a retirement
plan into another retirement plan or IRA.

• How to report disability payments, and how beneficiaries and survivors of employees and retirees must report benefits paid to them.

• How to report railroad retirement benefits.
• When additional taxes on certain distributions may apply (including the tax on early distributions and the tax
on excess accumulation).

For additional information on how to report pen-

TIP sion or annuity payments on your federal income

tax return, be sure to review the instructions on
the back of Copies B, C, and 2 of the Form 1099-R, Distributions From Pensions, Annuities, Retirement or
Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, Insurance Contracts, etc., that
you received and the instructions for Form 1040, lines 5a,
5b, and 5c, and the instructions for Form 1040-NR, lines
5a, 5b, and 5c.
A “corrected” Form 1099-R replaces the corresponding original Form 1099-R if the original
CAUTION Form 1099-R contained an error. Make sure you
use the amounts shown on the corrected Form 1099-R
when reporting information on your tax return.

!

What isn’t covered in this publication? The following
topics aren’t discussed in this publication.
The General Rule. This is the method generally used
to determine the tax treatment of pension and annuity income from nonqualified plans (including commercial annuities). For a qualified plan, you can’t generally use the
General Rule unless your annuity starting date is before
November 19, 1996. Although this publication will help
you determine whether you can use the General Rule, it
won’t help you use it to determine the tax treatment of your
pension or annuity income. For that and other information
on the General Rule, see Pub. 939, General Rule for Pensions and Annuities.
Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs). Information on the tax treatment of amounts you receive from
an IRA is in Pub. 590-B, Distributions from Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs).

Publication 575 (2025)

Civil service retirement benefits. If you are retired
from the federal government (regular, phased, or disability
retirement) or are the survivor or beneficiary of a federal
employee or retiree who died, see Pub. 721, Tax Guide to
U.S. Civil Service Retirement Benefits. Pub. 721 covers
the tax treatment of federal retirement benefits, primarily
those paid under the Civil Service Retirement System
(CSRS) or the Federal Employees’ Retirement System
(FERS). It also covers benefits paid from the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP).
Social security and equivalent tier 1 railroad retirement benefits. For information about the tax treatment of
these benefits, see Pub. 915, Social Security and Equivalent Railroad Retirement Benefits. However, this publication (575) covers the tax treatment of the non-social security equivalent benefit portion of tier 1 railroad retirement
benefits, tier 2 benefits, vested dual benefits, and supplemental annuity benefits paid by the U.S. Railroad Retirement Board.

Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
505

Tax-sheltered annuity plans (403(b) plans). If you
work for a public school or certain tax-exempt organizations, you may be eligible to participate in a 403(b) retirement plan offered by your employer. Although this publication covers the treatment of benefits under 403(b) plans
and discusses in-plan Roth rollovers from 403(b) plans to
designated Roth accounts, it doesn’t cover other tax provisions that apply to these plans. For that and other information on 403(b) plans, see Pub. 571.
Nonresident aliens. Except as discussed later regarding the taxation of and withholding on certain Railroad
Retirement Benefits, the tax treatment of pensions and annuities received by a nonresident alien. For more information about the taxation of nonresident aliens, see Pub.
519, U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens, and Pub. 901, U.S. Tax
Treaties.
Covered expatriates. Certain special rules may apply
to the taxation of and withholding on certain pensions and
annuities received by a former U.S. citizen or long-term
permanent resident of the United States who is a covered
expatriate under section 877A. For more information, see
Pub. 519.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Publication 575 (2025)

519 U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens
519

525 Taxable and Nontaxable Income
525

560 Retirement Plans for Small Business (SEP,
SIMPLE, and Qualified Plans)
560

571 Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plans (403(b) Plans)
571

590-A Contributions to Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
590-A

590-B Distributions from Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
590-B

721 Tax Guide to U.S. Civil Service Retirement
Benefits
721

901 U.S. Tax Treaties
901

907 Tax Highlights for Persons With Disabilities
907

915 Social Security and Equivalent Railroad
Retirement Benefits
915

939 General Rule for Pensions and Annuities
939

Form (and Instructions)
W-4P Withholding Certificate for Pension or Annuity
Payments
W-4P

W-4R Withholding Certificate for Nonperiodic
Payments and Eligible Rollover Distributions
W-4R

1099-R Distributions From Pensions, Annuities,
Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs,
Insurance Contracts, etc.
1099-R

4972 Tax on Lump-Sum Distributions
4972

5329 Additional Taxes on Qualified Plans (Including
IRAs) and Other Tax-Favored Accounts
5329

8915-F Qualified Disaster Retirement Plan
Distributions and Repayments
8915-F

See How To Get Tax Help near the end of this publication
for information about getting publications and forms.
3

General Information
Definitions. Some of the terms used in this publication
are defined in the following paragraphs.
Pension. A pension is generally a series of definitely
determinable payments made to you after you retire from
work. Pension payments are made regularly and are
based on such factors as years of service and prior compensation.
Annuity. An annuity is a series of payments under a
contract made at regular intervals over a period of more
than 1 full year. They can be either fixed (under which you
receive a definite amount) or variable (not fixed). You can
buy the contract alone or with the help of your employer.
Qualified employee plan. A qualified employee plan
is an employer’s stock bonus, pension, or profit-sharing
plan that is for the exclusive benefit of employees or their
beneficiaries and that meets Internal Revenue Code requirements. It qualifies for special tax benefits, such as tax
deferral for employer contributions and capital gain treatment or the 10-year tax option for lump-sum distributions
(if participants qualify). To determine whether your plan is
a qualified plan, check with your employer or the plan administrator.
Qualified employee annuity. A qualified employee
annuity is a retirement annuity purchased by an employer
for an employee under a plan that meets Internal Revenue
Code requirements.
Designated Roth account. A designated Roth account is a separate account created under a qualified
Roth contribution program to which participants may elect
to have part or all of their elective deferrals to a 401(k),
403(b), or 457(b) plan designated as Roth contributions.
In addition, a designated Roth account may include certain nonelective contributions or matching contributions
that a participant designates as Roth contributions.
Designated Roth contributions, designated Roth nonelective contributions, and designated Roth matching contributions are included in your income. However, qualified
distributions (explained later) aren’t included in your income.
You should check with your plan administrator to determine if your plan will accept designated Roth contributions.
Tax-sheltered annuity plan. A tax-sheltered annuity
plan (often referred to as a “403(b) plan” or a “tax-deferred
annuity plan”) is a retirement plan for employees of public
schools and certain tax-exempt organizations. Generally,
a tax-sheltered annuity plan provides retirement benefits
by purchasing annuity contracts for its participants.
Types of pensions and annuities. Pensions and annuities include the following types.
Fixed-period annuities.
You receive definite
amounts at regular intervals for a specified length of time.

4

Annuities for a single life. You receive definite
amounts at regular intervals for life. The payments end at
death.
Joint and survivor annuities. The first annuitant receives a definite amount at regular intervals for life. After
they die, a second annuitant receives a definite amount at
regular intervals for life. The amount paid to the second
annuitant may or may not differ from the amount paid to
the first annuitant.
Variable annuities. You receive payments that may
vary in amount for a specified length of time or for life. The
amounts you receive may depend upon such variables as
profits earned by the pension or annuity funds, cost-of-living indexes, or earnings from a mutual fund.
Disability pensions. You receive disability payments
because you retired on disability and haven’t reached minimum retirement age.
More than one program. You may receive employee
plan benefits from more than one program under a single
trust or plan of your employer. If you participate in more
than one program, you may have to treat each as a separate pension or annuity contract, depending upon the facts
in each case. Also, you may be considered to have received more than one pension or annuity. Your former employer or the plan administrator should be able to tell you if
you have more than one contract.
Example. Your employer set up a noncontributory
profit-sharing plan for its employees. The plan provides
that the amount held in the account of each participant will
be paid when that participant retires. Your employer also
set up a contributory defined benefit pension plan for its
employees providing for the payment of a lifetime pension
to each participant after retirement.
The amount of any distribution from the profit-sharing
plan depends on the contributions (including allocated forfeitures) made for the participant and the earnings from
those contributions. Under the pension plan, however, a
formula determines the amount of the pension benefits.
The amount of contributions is the amount necessary to
provide that pension.
Each plan is a separate program and a separate contract. If you get benefits from these plans, you must account for each separately, even though the benefits from
both may be included in the same check.
Distributions from a designated Roth account are
treated separately from other distributions from
CAUTION the plan.

!

Qualified domestic relations order (QDRO). A QDRO
is a judgment, decree, or order relating to payment of child
support, alimony, or marital property rights to a spouse,
former spouse, child, or other dependent of a participant
in a retirement plan. The QDRO must contain certain specific information, such as the name and last known mailing
address of the participant and each alternate payee, and
the amount or percentage of the participant’s benefits to
be paid to each alternate payee. A QDRO may not award
Publication 575 (2025)

an amount or form of benefit that isn’t available under the
plan.
A spouse or former spouse who receives part of the
benefits from a retirement plan under a QDRO reports the
payments received as if they were a plan participant. The
spouse or former spouse is allocated a share of the participant’s cost (investment in the contract) equal to the cost
times a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the
present value of the benefits payable to the spouse or former spouse. The denominator is the present value of all
benefits payable to the participant.
A distribution that is paid to a child or other dependent
under a QDRO is taxed to the plan participant.

Variable Annuities
The tax rules in this publication apply both to annuities
that provide fixed payments and to annuities that provide
payments that vary in amount based on investment results
or other factors. For example, they apply to commercial
variable annuity contracts, whether bought by an employee retirement plan for its participants or bought directly from the issuer by an individual investor. Under
these contracts, the owner can generally allocate the purchase payments among several types of investment portfolios or mutual funds and the contract value is determined
by the performance of those investments. The earnings
aren’t taxed until distributed either in a withdrawal or in annuity payments. The taxable part of a distribution is treated as ordinary income.
For information on the tax treatment of a transfer or exchange of a variable annuity contract, see Transfers of Annuity Contracts under Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments,
later.
Net Investment Income Tax (NIIT). Annuities under a
nonqualified plan are included in calculating your net investment income for the NIIT. See Form 8960, Net Investment Income Tax—Individuals, Estates, and Trusts, and its
instructions for more information.
Withdrawals. If you withdraw funds before your annuity
starting date and your annuity is under a qualified retirement plan, a ratable part of the amount withdrawn is tax
free. The tax-free part is based on the ratio of your cost
(investment in the contract) to your account balance under
the plan.
If your annuity is under a nonqualified plan (including a
contract you bought directly from the issuer), the amount
withdrawn is allocated first to earnings (the taxable part)
and then to your cost (the tax-free part). However, if you
bought your annuity contract before August 14, 1982, a
different allocation applies to the investment before that
date and the earnings on that investment. To the extent
the amount withdrawn doesn’t exceed that investment and
earnings, it is allocated first to your cost (the tax-free part)
and then to earnings (the taxable part).
If you withdraw funds (other than as an annuity) on or
after your annuity starting date, the entire amount withdrawn is generally taxable.
Publication 575 (2025)

The amount you receive in a full surrender of your annuity contract at any time is tax free to the extent of any
cost that you haven’t previously recovered tax free. The
rest is taxable.
For more information on the tax treatment of withdrawals, see Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments, later. If you
withdraw funds from your annuity before you reach age
591/2, also see Tax on Early Distributions under Special
Additional Taxes, later.
Annuity payments. If you receive annuity payments under a variable annuity plan or contract, you recover your
cost tax free under either the Simplified Method or the
General Rule, as explained under Taxation of Periodic
Payments, later. For a variable annuity paid under a qualified plan, you must generally use the Simplified Method.
For a variable annuity paid under a nonqualified plan (including a contract you bought directly from the issuer), you
must use a special computation under the General Rule.
For more information, see Variable annuities under Computation Under the General Rule in Pub. 939.
Death benefits. If you receive a single-sum distribution
from a variable annuity contract because of the death of
the owner or annuitant, the distribution is generally taxable
only to the extent it is more than the unrecovered cost of
the contract. If you choose to receive an annuity, the payments are subject to tax as described above. If the contract provides a joint and survivor annuity and the primary
annuitant had received annuity payments before death,
you figure the tax-free part of annuity payments you receive as the survivor in the same way the primary annuitant did. See Survivors and Beneficiaries, later.

Section 457 Deferred Compensation
Plans
If you work for a state or local government or for a tax-exempt organization, you may be able to participate in a section 457 deferred compensation plan. If your plan is an eligible plan, you aren’t taxed currently on pay that is
deferred under the plan or on any earnings from the plan’s
investment of the deferred pay. You are generally taxed on
amounts deferred in an eligible state or local government
plan only when they are distributed from the plan. You are
taxed on amounts deferred in an eligible tax-exempt organization plan when they are distributed or otherwise
made available to you.
Your 457(b) plan may have a designated Roth account
option. If so, you may be able to roll over amounts to the
designated Roth account or make contributions. Contributions to a designated Roth account are included in your income. Qualified distributions (explained later) aren’t included in your income. See Designated Roth accounts under
Taxation of Periodic Payments, later.
This publication covers the tax treatment of benefits under eligible section 457 plans, but it doesn’t cover the
treatment of deferrals. For information on deferrals under
section 457 plans, see Retirement Plan Contributions under Employee Compensation in Pub. 525.
5

Is your plan eligible? To find out if your plan is an eligible plan, check with your employer. Plans that aren’t eligible section 457 plans include the following.

• The Public Health Service.
• The Foreign Service.

• Bona fide vacation leave, sick leave, compensatory

Insurance Premiums for Retired
Public Safety Officers

• Nonelective deferred compensation plans for nonem-

If you are an eligible retired public safety officer (law enforcement officer, firefighter, chaplain, or member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew who is retired because of
disability or because you reached normal retirement age),
you can elect to exclude from income distributions made
from your eligible retirement plan that are used to pay the
premiums for coverage by an accident or health plan or a
long-term care insurance contract. The premiums can be
for coverage for you, your spouse, or dependents.

time, severance pay, disability pay, or death benefit
plans.
ployees (independent contractors).

• Deferred compensation plans maintained by
churches.

• Length of service award plans for bona fide volunteer

firefighters and emergency medical personnel. An exception applies if the total amount paid to a volunteer
exceeds $7,500 for any year of service.

Disability Pensions
If you retired on disability, you must generally include in income any disability pension you receive under a plan that
is paid for by your employer. You must report your taxable
disability payments as wages on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 1h, until you reach minimum retirement age.
Minimum retirement age is generally the age at which you
can first receive a pension or annuity if you aren’t disabled.
You may be entitled to a tax credit if you were per-

TIP manently and totally disabled when you retired.

For information on this credit, see the Instructions
for Schedule R (Form 1040).

Beginning on the day after you reach minimum retirement age, payments you receive are taxable as a pension
or annuity. When you receive pension or annuity payments, you are able to recover your cost or investment.
Your cost is generally your net investment in the plan as of
your annuity starting date. It doesn’t include pre-tax contributions. For more information, see Cost (Investment in the
Contract) and Taxation of Periodic Payments, later.
Report the payments on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, lines 5a and 5b.
Disability payments for injuries incurred as a di-

TIP rect result of a terrorist attack directed against the

United States (or its allies) aren’t included in income. For more information about payments to survivors
of terrorist attacks, see Pub. 3920, Tax Relief for Victims of
Terrorist Attacks, and Pub. 907.
Military and government disability pensions. Certain
military and government disability pensions aren’t taxable.
Service-connected disability. You may be able to exclude from income amounts you receive as a pension, an
annuity, or similar allowance for personal injury or sickness resulting from active service in one of the following
government services.

• The armed forces of any country.
• The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

6

The distribution must be from the plan maintained by
the employer from which you retired as a public safety officer. The distribution can be made directly from the plan to
the provider of the accident or health plan or long-term
care insurance contract, or the distribution can be made to
you to pay to the provider of the accident or health plan or
long-term care insurance contract.
You can exclude from income the smaller of the amount
of the insurance premiums or $3,000. You can make this
election only for amounts that would otherwise be included in your income. The amount excluded from your income can’t be used to claim a medical expense deduction.
An eligible retirement plan is a governmental plan that
is a:

• Qualified trust,
• Section 403(a) plan,
• Section 403(b) annuity, or
• Section 457(b) plan.
If you make this election, reduce the otherwise taxable
amount of your pension or annuity by the amount excluded. The amount shown in box 2a of Form 1099-R doesn’t
reflect this exclusion. Report your total distributions on
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5a. Report the taxable amount on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR,
line 5b. Also, check box 2 for “PSO” on line 5c.
If you are retired on disability and reporting your disability pension on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 1h,
include only the taxable amount on that line and enter
“PSO” and the amount excluded on the dotted line next to
the applicable line.

Railroad Retirement Benefits
Benefits paid under the Railroad Retirement Act fall into
two categories. These categories are treated differently for
income tax purposes.
The first category is the amount of tier 1 railroad retirement benefits that equals the social security benefit that a
railroad employee or beneficiary would have been entitled
to receive under the social security system. This part of
Publication 575 (2025)

the tier 1 benefit is the social security equivalent benefit
(SSEB) and you treat it for tax purposes as social security
benefits. If you received, repaid, or had tax withheld from
the SSEB portion of tier 1 benefits during 2025, you will receive Form RRB-1099, Payments by the Railroad Retirement Board (or Form RRB-1042S, Statement for Nonresident Alien Recipients of Payments by the Railroad
Retirement Board, if you are a nonresident alien), from the
U.S. Railroad Retirement Board (RRB).
For more information about the tax treatment of the
SSEB portion of tier 1 benefits and Forms RRB-1099 and
RRB-1042S, see Pub. 915.
The second category contains the rest of the tier 1 railroad retirement benefits called the non-social security
equivalent benefit (NSSEB). It also contains any tier 2
benefit, vested dual benefit (VDB), and supplemental annuity benefit. Treat this category of benefits, shown on
Form RRB-1099-R, as an amount received from a qualified employee plan. This allows for the tax-free (nontaxable) recovery of employee contributions from the tier 2
benefits and the NSSEB part of the tier 1 benefits. (The
NSSEB and tier 2 benefits, less certain repayments, are
combined into one amount called the Contributory
Amount Paid on Form RRB-1099-R.) VDBs and supplemental annuity benefits are non-contributory pensions and
are fully taxable. See Taxation of Periodic Payments, later,
for information on how to report your benefits and how to
recover the employee contributions tax free. Form
RRB-1099-R is used for U.S. citizens, resident aliens, and
nonresident aliens.
Nonresident aliens. A nonresident alien is an individual
who isn’t a citizen or a resident alien of the United States.
If you are a nonresident alien, you are subject to U.S. tax
on your SSEB portion of tier 1 benefits at a 30% rate, unless exempt or subject to a lower treaty rate. See Pub.
519, for more information.
If your rate of tax changed or your country of legal residence changed during the tax year, you may receive more
than one Form RRB-1042S or RRB-1099-R. To determine
your total benefits paid or repaid and total tax withheld for
the year, you should add the amounts shown on all forms
you received for that year.
Tax withholding. To request or change your income tax
withholding from SSEB payments, U.S. citizens should
contact the IRS for Form W-4V, Voluntary Withholding Request, and file it with the RRB. To elect, revoke, or change
your income tax withholding from NSSEB, tier 2, VDB, and
supplemental annuity payments received, use Form RRB
W-4P. If you are a nonresident alien or a U.S. citizen living
abroad, you should provide Form RRB-1001, Nonresident
Questionnaire, to the RRB to furnish citizenship and residency information and to claim any treaty exemption from
U.S. tax withholding. Nonresident U.S. citizens can’t elect
to be exempt from withholding on payments delivered outside the United States.
Help from the RRB. To request an RRB form or to get
help with questions about an RRB benefit, you should
contact your nearest RRB field office if you reside in the
Publication 575 (2025)

United States (call 877-772-5772 for the nearest field office) or U.S. Consulate/Embassy if you reside outside the
United States. You can visit the RRB on the Internet at
RRB.gov.
Form RRB-1099-R. The following discussion explains
the items shown on Form RRB-1099-R. The amounts
shown on this form are before any deduction for:

• Federal income tax withholding;
• Medicare premiums;
• Legal process garnishment payments;
• Recovery of a prior-year overpayment of an NSSEB,

tier 2 benefit, VDB, or supplemental annuity benefit; or

• Recovery of Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act

benefits received while awaiting payment of your railroad retirement annuity.

The amounts shown on this form are after any offset
for:

• Social security benefits;
• Age reduction;
• Public service pensions or public disability benefits;
• Dual railroad retirement entitlement under another
RRB claim number;

• Work deductions;
• Legal process partition deductions;
• Actuarial adjustment;
• Annuity waiver; or
• Recovery of a current-year overpayment of NSSEB,

tier 2 benefits, VDB, or supplemental annuity benefits.

The amounts shown on Form RRB-1099-R don’t reflect
any special rules, such as capital gain treatment or the
special 10-year tax option for lump-sum payments, or
tax-free rollovers. To determine if any of these rules apply
to your benefits, see the discussions about them later.
Generally, amounts shown on your Form RRB-1099-R
are considered a normal distribution. Use distribution
code “7” if you are asked for a distribution code. Distribution codes aren’t shown on Form RRB-1099-R.
There are three copies of this form. Copy B is to be included with your income tax return if federal income tax is
withheld. Copy C is for your own records. Copy 2 is filed
with your state, city, or local income tax return when required. See the illustrated Copy B (Form RRB-1099-R),
later.
Each beneficiary will receive their own Form

TIP RRB-1099-R. If you receive benefits on more than

one railroad retirement record, you may get more
than one Form RRB-1099-R. So that you get your form
timely, make sure the RRB always has your current mailing
address.
Box 1—Claim Number and Payee Code. Your claim
number is a six- or nine-digit number preceded by an alphabetical prefix. This is the number under which the RRB
7

2025

PAYER’S NAME, STREET ADDRESS, CITY, STATE, AND ZIP CODE

UNITED STATES RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD
844 N RUSH ST CHICAGO IL 60611-1275

ANNUITIES OR PENSIONS BY THE
RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD

3. Employee Contributions

PAYER’S FEDERAL IDENTIFYING NO. 36-3314600
1. Claim Number and Payee Code

4. Contributory Amount Paid

2. Recipient’s

5. Vested Dual

COPY B Number

Recipient’s Name, Street Address, City, State, and Zip Code

REPORT THIS INCOME ON
YOUR
FEDERAL
TAX
RETURN. IF THIS FORM
SHOWS FEDERAL INCOME
TAX WITHHELD IN BOX 9,
ATTACH THIS COPY TO
YOUR RETURN.

6. Supplemental Annuity
7. Total Gross Paid

(Sum of boxes 4, 5, and 6)

8. Repayments

THIS INFORMATION IS BEING
FURNISHED TO THE INTERNAL
REVENUE SERVICE.

9. Federal Income Tax
Withheld
10. Medicare Premium Total

FORM RRB-1099-R
paid your benefits. Your payee code follows your claim
number and is the last number in this box. It is used by the
RRB to identify you under your claim number. In all your
correspondence with the RRB, be sure to use the claim
number and payee code shown in this box.

If you had a previous annuity entitlement that
ended and you are figuring the tax-free part of
CAUTION your NSSEB/tier 2 benefit for your current annuity
entitlement, you should contact the RRB for confirmation
of your correct employee contribution amount.

Box 2—Recipient’s Identification Number. This is
the recipient’s U.S. taxpayer identification number (TIN). It
is the social security number (SSN), individual taxpayer
identification number (ITIN), or employer identification
number (EIN), if known, for the person or estate listed as
the recipient.

Box 4—Contributory Amount Paid. This is the gross
amount of the NSSEB and tier 2 benefit you received in
2025, less any 2025 benefits you repaid in 2025. (Any
benefits you repaid in 2025 for an earlier year or for an unknown year are shown in box 8.) This amount is the total
contributory pension paid in 2025. It may be partly taxable
and partly tax free or fully taxable. If you determine you are
eligible to compute a tax-free part, as explained later in
Partly Taxable Payments under Taxation of Periodic Payments, use the latest reported employee contribution
amount shown in box 3 as the cost.

If you are a resident or nonresident alien who

TIP must furnish a TIN to the IRS and aren’t eligible to

obtain an SSN, use Form W-7, Application for IRS
Individual Taxpayer Identification Number, to apply for an
ITIN. The Instructions for Form W-7 explain how and when
to apply.
Box 3—Employee Contributions. This is the amount
of taxes withheld from the railroad employee’s earnings
that exceeds the amount of taxes that would have been
withheld had the earnings been covered under the social
security system. This amount is the employee’s cost that
you use to figure the tax-free part of the NSSEB and tier 2
benefit you received (the amount shown in box 4). (For information on how to figure the tax-free part, see Partly
Taxable Payments under Taxation of Periodic Payments,
later.) The amount shown is the total employee contribution amount, not reduced by any amounts that the RRB
calculated as previously recovered. It is the latest amount
reported for 2025 and may have increased or decreased
from a previous Form RRB-1099-R. If this amount has
changed, the change is retroactive. You may need to refigure the tax-free part of your NSSEB/tier 2 benefit for 2025
and prior tax years. If this box is blank, it means that the
amount of your NSSEB and tier 2 payments shown in
box 4 is fully taxable.

8

!

Box 5—Vested Dual Benefit. This is the gross
amount of VDB payments paid in 2025, less any 2025
VDB payments you repaid in 2025. It is fully taxable. VDB
payments you repaid in 2025 for an earlier year or for an
unknown year are shown in box 8.
Note: The amounts shown in boxes 4 and 5 may represent payments for 2025 and/or other years after 1983.
Box 6—Supplemental Annuity. This is the gross
amount of supplemental annuity benefits paid in 2025,
less any 2025 supplemental annuity benefits you repaid in
2024. It is fully taxable. Supplemental annuity benefits you
repaid in 2025 for an earlier year or for an unknown year
are shown in box 8.
Box 7—Total Gross Paid. This is the sum of boxes 4,
5, and 6. The amount represents the total pension paid in
2025. Include this amount on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5a.
Box 8—Repayments. This amount represents any
NSSEB, tier 2 benefit, VDB, and supplemental annuity
Publication 575 (2025)

benefit you repaid to the RRB in 2025 for years before
2025 or for unknown years. The amount shown in this box
hasn’t been deducted from the amounts shown in boxes
4, 5, and 6. It only includes repayments of benefits that
were taxable to you. This means it only includes repayments in 2025 of NSSEB paid after 1985, tier 2 benefits
and VDB paid after 1983, and supplemental annuity benefits paid in any year. If you included the benefits in your income in the year you received them, you may be able to
deduct the repaid amount. For more information about repayments, see Repayment of benefits received in an earlier year, later.
You may have repaid an overpayment of benefits

TIP by returning a payment, by making a payment, or

by having an amount withheld from your railroad
retirement annuity payment.
Box 9—Federal Income Tax Withheld. This is the total federal income tax withheld from your NSSEB, tier 2
benefit, VDB, and supplemental annuity benefit. Include
this on your income tax return as tax withheld. If you are a
nonresident alien and your tax withholding rate and/or
country of legal residence changed during 2025, you will
receive more than one Form RRB-1099-R for 2025. Determine the total amount of U.S. federal income tax withheld
from your 2025 RRB NSSEB, tier 2, VDB, and supplemental annuity payments by adding the amounts in box 9 of all
original 2025 Forms RRB-1099-R, or the latest corrected
or duplicate Forms RRB-1099-R you receive.
Box 10—Rate of Tax. If you are a nonresident alien,
an entry in this box indicates the rate at which tax was
withheld on the NSSEB, tier 2, VDB, and supplemental
annuity payments that were paid to you in 2025. If you are
a nonresident alien whose tax was withheld at more than
one rate during 2025, you will receive a separate Form
RRB-1099-R for each rate change during 2025. If you are
taxed as a U.S. citizen or resident alien, this box doesn’t
apply to you.
Box 11—Country. If you are a nonresident alien, an
entry in this box indicates the country of which you were a
resident for tax purposes at the time you received railroad
retirement payments in 2025. If you are a nonresident
alien who was a resident of more than one country during
2025, you will receive a separate Form RRB-1099-R for
each country of residence during 2025. If you are taxed as
a U.S. citizen or resident alien, this box doesn’t apply to
you.
Box 12—Medicare Premium Total. This is for information purposes only. The amount shown in this box represents the total amount of Medicare Part B premiums deducted from your railroad retirement annuity payments in
2025. Medicare premium refunds aren’t included in the
Medicare total. The Medicare total is normally shown on
Form RRB-1099 (if you are a citizen or resident alien of
the United States) or Form RRB-1042S (if you are a nonresident alien). However, if Form RRB-1099 or Form
RRB-1042S isn’t required for 2025, then this total will be
shown on Form RRB-1099-R. If your Medicare premiums
were deducted from your social security benefits, paid by
Publication 575 (2025)

a third party, refunded to you, and/or you paid the premiums by direct billing, your Medicare total won’t be shown
in this box.
Repayment of benefits received in an earlier year. If
you had to repay any railroad retirement benefits that you
had included in your income in an earlier year because at
that time you thought you had an unrestricted right to it,
you can deduct the amount you repaid in the year in which
you repaid it.
However, if you repaid $3,000 or less, for tax years beginning after 2017, miscellaneous itemized deductions
subject to the 2%-of-adjusted-gross-income limit are suspended and therefore not deductible on Schedule A (Form
1040).
If you repaid more than $3,000 in 2025, you can either
take a deduction for the amount repaid on Schedule A
(Form 1040), line 16, or you can take a credit against your
tax. For more information, see Repayments in Pub. 525.

Withholding Tax and Estimated Tax
Your retirement plan distributions are subject to federal income tax withholding. However, you can choose not to
have tax withheld on payments you receive unless they
are eligible rollover distributions. (These are distributions,
described later under Rollovers, that are eligible for rollover treatment but aren’t paid directly to another qualified
retirement plan or to a traditional IRA.) If you choose not to
have tax withheld or if you don’t have enough tax withheld,
you may have to make estimated tax payments. See Estimated tax, later.
The withholding rules apply to the taxable part of payments you receive from:

• An employer pension, annuity, profit-sharing, or stock
bonus plan;

• Any other deferred compensation plan;
• A traditional IRA; or
• A commercial annuity.
For this purpose, a “commercial annuity” means an annuity, endowment, or life insurance contract issued by an insurance company.
There will be no withholding on any part of a distri-

TIP bution where it is reasonable to believe that it
won’t be includible in gross income.

Choosing no withholding. You can choose not to have
income tax withheld from retirement plan payments unless
they are eligible rollover distributions. You can make this
choice on Form W-4P for periodic payments or Form
W-4R for nonperiodic payments. This choice generally remains in effect until you revoke it.
The payer will ignore your choice not to have tax withheld if:

• You don’t give the payer your SSN (in the required
manner); or

• The IRS notifies the payer, before the payment is
made, that you gave an incorrect SSN.

9

To choose not to have tax withheld, a U.S. citizen or
resident alien must give the payer a home address in the
United States or its territories. Without that address, the
payer must withhold tax. For example, the payer has to
withhold tax if the recipient has provided a U.S. address
for a nominee, trustee, or agent to whom the benefits are
delivered but hasn’t provided their own U.S. home address.
If you don’t give the payer a home address in the United
States or its territories, you can choose not to have tax
withheld only if you certify to the payer that you aren’t a
U.S. citizen, a U.S. resident alien, or someone who is subject to section 877 because you expatriated before June
17, 2008. See Form 8854 and its instructions for details
about section 877. But, if you so certify, you may be subject to the 30% flat rate withholding that applies to nonresident aliens. This 30% rate won’t apply if you are exempt
or subject to a reduced rate by treaty. For details, see Pub.
519.
Periodic payments. Unless you choose no withholding,
your annuity or similar periodic payments (other than eligible rollover distributions) will be treated as wages for withholding purposes. Periodic payments are amounts paid at
regular intervals (such as weekly, monthly, or yearly) for a
period of time greater than 1 year (such as for 15 years or
for life). You should give the payer a completed withholding certificate (Form W-4P or a similar form provided by
the payer). If you don’t, tax will be withheld as if you were
single with no adjustments made in Steps 2 through 4 on
Form W-4P.
Tax will be withheld as if you were single with no adjustments made in Steps 2 through 4 on Form W-4P if:

• You don’t give the payer your SSN (in the required
manner), or

• The IRS notifies the payer (before any payment is
made) that you gave an incorrect SSN.

You must file a new withholding certificate to change
the amount of withholding. See the instructions for Form
W-4P and Periodic Payments in Pub. 505 for more information.
Nonperiodic distributions. Unless you choose no withholding, the withholding rate for a nonperiodic distribution
(a payment other than a periodic payment) that isn’t an eligible rollover distribution is 10% of the distribution. You
can also ask the payer to withhold an additional amount
using Form W-4R. The part of any loan treated as a distribution (except an offset amount to repay the loan), explained later, is subject to withholding under this rule.
Eligible rollover distribution. If you receive an eligible
rollover distribution, 20% of it will generally be withheld for
income tax. You can’t choose not to have tax withheld
from an eligible rollover distribution. However, tax won’t be
withheld if you have the plan administrator pay the eligible
rollover distribution directly to another qualified plan or an
IRA in a direct rollover. For more information about eligible
rollover distributions, see Rollovers, later.

10

Estimated tax. Your estimated tax is the total of your expected income tax, self-employment tax, and certain other
taxes for the year, minus your expected credits and withheld tax. Generally, you must make estimated tax payments for 2026 if you expect to owe at least $1,000 in tax
(after subtracting your withholding and credits) and you
expect your withholding and credits to be less than the
smaller of:
1. 90% of the tax to be shown on your 2026 return, or
2. 100% of the tax shown on your 2025 return.
If your adjusted gross income for 2025 was more than
$150,000 ($75,000 if your filing status for 2026 is married
filing separately), substitute 110% for 100% in (2) above.
For more information, see Pub. 505.
In figuring your withholding or estimated tax, re-

TIP member that a part of your monthly social security

or equivalent tier 1 railroad retirement benefits
may be taxable. See Pub. 915. You can choose to have income tax withheld from those benefits. Use Form W-4V to
make this choice.

Cost (Investment in the
Contract)
Distributions from your pension or annuity plan may include amounts treated as a recovery of your cost (investment in the contract). If any part of a distribution is treated
as a recovery of your cost under the rules explained in this
publication, that part is tax free. Therefore, the first step in
figuring how much of a distribution is taxable is to determine the cost of your pension or annuity.
In general, your cost is your net investment in the contract as of the annuity starting date (or the date of the distribution if earlier). To find this amount, you must first figure
the total premiums, contributions, or other amounts you
paid. This includes the amounts your employer contributed that were taxable to you when paid. However, see
Foreign employment contributions, later. It doesn’t include
amounts withheld from your pay on a tax-deferred basis
(money that was taken out of your gross pay before taxes
were deducted). It also doesn’t include amounts you contributed for health and accident benefits (including any additional premiums paid for double indemnity or disability
benefits).
From this total cost, you must subtract the following
amounts.
1. Any refunded premiums, rebates, dividends, or unrepaid loans that weren’t included in your income and
that you received by the later of the annuity starting
date or the date on which you received your first payment.
2. Any other tax-free amounts you received under the
contract or plan by the later of the dates in (1).

Publication 575 (2025)

3. If you must use the Simplified Method for your annuity
payments, the tax-free part of any single-sum payment received in connection with the start of the annuity payments, regardless of when you received it. (See
Simplified Method, later, for information on its required
use.)
4. If you use the General Rule for your annuity payments,
the value of the refund feature in your annuity contract. (See General Rule, later, for information on its
use.) Your annuity contract has a refund feature if the
annuity payments are for your life (or the lives of you
and your survivor) and payments in the nature of a refund of the annuity’s cost will be made to your beneficiary or estate if all annuitants die before a stated
amount or a stated number of payments are made.
For more information, see Pub. 939.
The tax treatment of the items described in (1) through (3)
is discussed later under Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments.
Form 1099-R. If you began receiving periodic

church or a lay person) but only if the contributions
would be excludable from your gross income had they
been paid directly to you.
Foreign employment contributions while a nonresident alien. In determining your cost, special rules apply
if you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien who received distributions in 2025 from a plan to which contributions were
made while you were a nonresident alien. Your contributions and your employer’s contributions aren’t included in
your cost if the contribution:

• Was made based on compensation which was for

services performed outside the United States while
you were a nonresident alien; and

• Wasn’t subject to income tax under the laws of the

United States or any foreign country, but only if the
contribution would have been subject to income tax if
paid as cash compensation when the services were
performed.

TIP payments of a life annuity in 2025, the payer

Taxation of Periodic Payments

Annuity starting date defined. Your annuity starting
date is the later of the first day of the first period for which
you received a payment or the date the plan’s obligations
became fixed.

This section explains how the periodic payments you receive from a pension or annuity plan are taxed. Periodic
payments are amounts paid at regular intervals (such as
weekly, monthly, or yearly) for a period of time greater than
1 year (such as for 15 years or for life). These payments
are also known as amounts received as an annuity. If you
receive an amount from your plan that isn’t a periodic payment, see Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments, later.

should show your total contributions to the plan in
box 9b of your 2025 Form 1099-R.

Example. On January 1, you completed all your payments required under an annuity contract providing for
monthly payments starting on August 1 for the period beginning July 1. The annuity starting date is July 1. This is
the date you use in figuring the cost of the contract and
selecting the appropriate number from Table 1 for line 3 of
the Simplified Method Worksheet.

In general, you can recover the cost of your pension or
annuity tax free over the period you are to receive the payments. The amount of each payment that is more than the
part that represents your cost is taxable. However, see Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety Officers, earlier.

Designated Roth accounts. Your cost in these accounts
is your designated Roth contributions that were included
in your income as wages subject to applicable withholding
requirements. Your cost will also include any in-plan Roth
rollovers, designated Roth nonelective contributions, or
designated Roth matching contributions you included in
income.

Designated Roth accounts. If you receive a qualified
distribution from a designated Roth account, the distribution isn’t included in your gross income. This applies to
both your cost in the account and income earned on that
account. A qualified distribution is generally a distribution that is:

Foreign employment contributions. If you worked
abroad, your cost may include contributions by your employer to the retirement plan, but only if those contributions would be excludable from your gross income had
they been paid directly to you as compensation. The contributions that apply are:

to a beneficiary or your estate on or after your death,
or attributable to your being disabled.

1. Contributions before 1963 by your employer,
2. Contributions after 1962 by your employer if the contributions would be excludable from your gross income (not including the foreign earned income exclusion) had they been paid directly to you, or
3. Contributions after 1996 by your employer if you performed the services of a foreign missionary (a duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed minister of a
Publication 575 (2025)

• Made after a 5-tax-year period of participation; and
• Made on or after the date you reach age 591/2, made
If the distribution isn’t a qualified distribution, the rules
discussed in this section apply. The designated Roth account is treated as a separate contract.
Period of participation. The 5-tax-year period of participation is the 5-tax-year period beginning with the first
tax year for which a contribution was made to the participant’s designated Roth account in the plan. Therefore, if a
contribution is first made to a participant’s designated
Roth account in the plan for 2025, the first year for which a
qualified distribution can be made is 2030.
11

However, if a direct rollover is made to the plan from a
designated Roth account under another plan, the
5-tax-year period for the recipient plan begins with the first
tax year for which a contribution was made to the participant’s designated Roth account in the other plan (if earlier).
Your 401(k), 403(b), or 457(b) plan may permit you to
roll over amounts from those plans to a designated Roth
account within the same plan. This is known as an in-plan
Roth rollover. If an in-plan Roth rollover is the first contribution made to your designated Roth account, the 5-tax-year
period of participation begins on the first day of the first
tax year in which you make the in-plan Roth rollover.
For more details, see In-plan Roth rollovers, later.

Fully Taxable Payments
The pension or annuity payments that you receive are fully
taxable if you have no cost in the contract because any of
the following situations apply to you. However, see Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety Officers, earlier.

• You didn’t pay anything or aren’t considered to have

paid anything for your pension or annuity. Amounts
withheld from your pay on a tax-deferred basis aren’t
considered part of the cost of the pension or annuity
payment.

• Your employer didn’t withhold contributions from your
salary.

• You got back all of your contributions tax free in prior

years. However, see Exclusion not limited to cost under Partly Taxable Payments, later.

Report the total amount you received on Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b. You should make no entry
on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5a.
Deductible voluntary employee contributions. Distributions you receive that are based on your accumulated
deductible voluntary employee contributions are generally
fully taxable in the year distributed to you. Accumulated
deductible voluntary employee contributions include net
earnings on the contributions. If distributed as part of a
lump sum, they don’t qualify for the 10-year tax option or
capital gain treatment, explained later.

Partly Taxable Payments
If you have a cost to recover from your pension or annuity
plan (see Cost (Investment in the Contract), earlier), you
can exclude part of each annuity payment from income as
a recovery of your cost. This tax-free part of the payment
is figured when your annuity starts and remains the same
each year even if the amount of the payment changes.
The rest of each payment is taxable. However, see Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety Officers, earlier.
You figure the tax-free part of the payment using one of
the following methods.

• Simplified Method. You must generally use this

method if your annuity is paid under a qualified plan (a
qualified employee plan, a qualified employee annuity,

12

or a tax-sheltered annuity plan or contract). You can’t
use this method if your annuity is paid under a nonqualified plan.

• General Rule. You must use this method if your annuity is paid under a nonqualified plan. Generally, you
can’t use this method if your annuity is paid under a
qualified plan. However, see Qualified plan annuity
starting before November 19, 1996, later, for exceptions to this rule.

You determine which method to use when you first begin
receiving your annuity, and you continue using it each year
that you recover part of your cost.
If you had more than one partly taxable pension or annuity, figure the tax-free part and the taxable part of each
separately.
Qualified plan annuity starting before November 19,
1996. If your annuity is paid under a qualified plan and
your annuity starting date (defined earlier under Cost (Investment in the Contract)) is after July 1, 1986, and before
November 19, 1996, you could have chosen to use either
the Simplified Method or the General Rule. If your annuity
starting date is before July 2, 1986, you use the General
Rule unless your annuity qualified and you elected to use
the 3-year Rule. If you used the 3-year Rule (which was repealed for annuities starting after July 1, 1986), your annuity payments are generally now fully taxable.
Exclusion limit. Your annuity starting date determines
the total amount of annuity payments that you can exclude
from income over the years. Once your annuity starting
date is determined, it doesn’t change. If you calculate the
taxable portion of your annuity payments using the Simplified Method Worksheet, the annuity starting date determines the recovery period for your cost. That recovery period begins on your annuity starting date and isn’t affected
by the date you first complete the worksheet.
Exclusion limited to cost. If your annuity starting
date is after 1986, the total amount of annuity income that
you can exclude over the years as a recovery of the cost
can’t exceed your total cost. Any unrecovered cost at your
(or the last annuitant’s) death is allowed as an itemized
deduction on the final return of the decedent.
Example 1. Your annuity starting date is after 1986,
and you exclude $100 a month ($1,200 a year) under the
Simplified Method. The total cost of your annuity is
$12,000. Your exclusion ends when you have recovered
your cost tax free, that is, after 10 years (120 months). After that, your annuity payments are generally fully taxable.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except you die (with no surviving annuitant) after the
eighth year of retirement. You have recovered tax free only
$9,600 (8 × $1,200) of your cost. An itemized deduction
for your unrecovered cost of $2,400 ($12,000 – $9,600)
can be taken on your final return.
Exclusion not limited to cost. If your annuity starting
date is before 1987, you can continue to take your monthly
exclusion for as long as you receive your annuity. If you
Publication 575 (2025)

chose a joint and survivor annuity, your survivor can continue to take the survivor’s exclusion figured as of the annuity starting date. The total exclusion may be more than
your cost.

Simplified Method
Under the Simplified Method, you figure the tax-free part
of each annuity payment by dividing your cost by the total
number of anticipated monthly payments. For an annuity
that is payable for the lives of the annuitants, this number
is based on the annuitants’ ages on the annuity starting
date and is determined from a table. For any other annuity,
this number is the number of monthly annuity payments
under the contract.

How to use the Simplified Method. Complete Worksheet A to figure your taxable annuity for 2025. Be sure to
keep the completed worksheet; it will help you figure your
taxable annuity next year.
To complete line 3 of the worksheet, you must determine the total number of expected monthly payments for
your annuity. How you do this depends on whether the annuity is for a single life, multiple lives, or a fixed period. For
this purpose, treat an annuity that is payable over the life
of an annuitant as payable for that annuitant’s life even if
the annuity has a fixed-period feature or also provides a
temporary annuity payable to the annuitant’s child under
age 25.
You don’t need to complete line 3 of the work-

TIP sheet or make the computation on line 4 if you re-

Who must use the Simplified Method. You must use
the Simplified Method if your annuity starting date is after
November 18, 1996, and you meet both of the following
conditions.

ceived annuity payments last year and used last
year’s worksheet to figure your taxable annuity. Instead,
enter the amount from line 4 of last year’s worksheet on
line 4 of this year’s worksheet.

1. You receive your pension or annuity payments from
any of the following plans.

Single-life annuity. If your annuity is payable for your
life alone, use Table 1 at the bottom of the worksheet to
determine the total number of expected monthly payments. Enter on line 3 the number shown for your age on
your annuity starting date. This number will differ depending on whether your annuity starting date is before November 19, 1996, or after November 18, 1996.

a. A qualified employee plan.
b. A qualified employee annuity.
c. A tax-sheltered annuity plan (403(b) plan).
2. On your annuity starting date, at least one of the following conditions applies to you.
a. You are under age 75.
b. You are entitled to less than 5 years of guaranteed
payments.
Guaranteed payments. Your annuity contract provides guaranteed payments if a minimum number of payments or a minimum amount (for example, the amount of
your investment) is payable even if you and any survivor
annuitant don’t live to receive the minimum. If the minimum amount is less than the total amount of the payments
you are to receive, barring death, during the first 5 years
after payments begin (figured by ignoring any payment increases), you are entitled to less than 5 years of guaranteed payments.
Annuity starting before November 19, 1996. If your
annuity starting date is after July 1, 1986, and before November 19, 1996, and you chose to use the Simplified
Method, you must continue to use it each year that you recover part of your cost. You could have chosen to use the
Simplified Method if your annuity is payable for your life (or
the lives of you and your survivor annuitant) and you met
both of the conditions listed earlier under Who must use
the Simplified Method.
Who can’t use the Simplified Method. You can’t use
the Simplified Method if you receive your pension or annuity from a nonqualified plan or otherwise don’t meet the
conditions described in the preceding discussion. See
General Rule, later.

Publication 575 (2025)

Multiple-lives annuity. If your annuity is payable for
the lives of more than one annuitant, use Table 2 at the
bottom of the worksheet to determine the total number of
expected monthly payments. Enter on line 3 the number
shown for the annuitants’ combined ages on the annuity
starting date. For an annuity payable to you as the primary
annuitant and to more than one survivor annuitant, combine your age and the age of the youngest survivor annuitant. For an annuity that has no primary annuitant and is
payable to you and others as survivor annuitants, combine
the ages of the oldest and youngest annuitants. Don’t treat
as a survivor annuitant anyone whose entitlement to payments depends on an event other than the primary annuitant’s death.
However, if your annuity starting date is before 1998,
don’t use Table 2 and don’t combine the annuitants’ ages.
Instead, you must use Table 1 at the bottom of the worksheet and enter on line 3 the number shown for the primary annuitant’s age on the annuity starting date. This
number will differ depending on whether your annuity
starting date is before November 19, 1996, or after November 18, 1996.
Fixed-period annuity. If your annuity doesn’t depend
in whole or in part on anyone’s life expectancy, the total
number of expected monthly payments to enter on line 3
of the worksheet is the number of monthly annuity payments under the contract.
Line 6. The amount on line 6 should include all
amounts that could have been recovered in prior years. If
you didn’t recover an amount in a prior year, you may be
able to amend your returns for the affected years.

13

Example. Bill Smith, age 65, began receiving retirement benefits in 2025 under a joint and survivor annuity.
Bill’s annuity starting date is January 1, 2025. The benefits
are to be paid for the joint lives of Bill and his spouse, age
65. Bill had contributed $31,000 to a qualified plan and
had received no distributions before the annuity starting
date. Bill is to receive a retirement benefit of $1,200 a
month, and his spouse is to receive a monthly survivor
benefit of $600 upon Bill’s death.
Bill must use the Simplified Method to figure his taxable
annuity because his payments are from a qualified plan
and he is under age 75. Because his annuity is payable
over the lives of more than one annuitant, he uses his and
his spouse’s combined ages and Table 2 at the bottom of
Worksheet A in completing line 3 of the worksheet. His
completed worksheet is shown later.
Bill’s tax-free monthly amount is $100 ($31,000 ÷ 310)
as shown on line 4 of the worksheet. Upon Bill’s death, if
Bill hasn’t recovered the full $31,000 investment, his
spouse will also exclude $100 from their $600 monthly
payment. The full amount of any annuity payments received after 310 payments are paid must be included in
gross income.
If Bill and his spouse die before 310 payments are
made, an itemized deduction will be allowed for the unrecovered cost on the final income tax return of the last to die.
Multiple annuitants. If you and one or more other annuitants receive payments at the same time, you exclude
from each annuity payment a pro rata share of the monthly
tax-free amount. Figure your share by taking the following
steps.
1. Complete your worksheet through line 4 to figure the
monthly tax-free amount.
2. Divide the amount of your monthly payment by the total amount of the monthly payments to all annuitants.
3. Multiply the amount on line 4 of your worksheet by the
amount figured in (2) above. The result is your share
of the monthly tax-free amount.
Replace the amount on line 4 of the worksheet with the
result in (3) above. Enter that amount on line 4 of your
worksheet each year.

General Rule
Under the General Rule, you determine the tax-free part of
each annuity payment based on the ratio of the cost of the
contract to the total expected return. Expected return is
the total amount you and other eligible annuitants can expect to receive under the contract. To figure it, you must
use life expectancy (actuarial) tables prescribed by the
IRS.
Who must use the General Rule. You must use the
General Rule if you receive pension or annuity payments
from a:

• Nonqualified plan (such as a private annuity, a purchased commercial annuity, or a nonqualified employee plan), or

14

• Qualified plan if you are age 75 or older on your annuity starting date and your annuity payments are guaranteed for at least 5 years.

Annuity starting before November 19, 1996. If your
annuity starting date is after July 1, 1986, and before November 19, 1996, you had to use the General Rule for either circumstance just described. You also had to use it for
any fixed-period annuity. If you didn’t have to use the General Rule, you could have chosen to use it. If your annuity
starting date is before July 2, 1986, you use the General
Rule unless your annuity qualified and you elected to use
the 3-year Rule.
If you had to use the General Rule (or elected to use it),
you must continue to use it each year that you recover
your cost.
Who can’t use the General Rule. You can’t use the
General Rule if you receive your pension or annuity from a
qualified plan and none of the circumstances described in
the preceding discussions apply to you. See Simplified
Method, earlier.
More information. For complete information on using the
General Rule, including the actuarial tables you need, see
Pub. 939.

Taxation of Nonperiodic
Payments
This section of the publication explains how any nonperiodic distributions you receive under a pension or annuity
plan are taxed. Nonperiodic distributions are also known
as amounts not received as an annuity. They include all
payments other than periodic payments and corrective
distributions.
For example, the following items are treated as nonperiodic distributions.

• Cash withdrawals.
• Distributions of current earnings (dividends) on your

investment. However, don’t include these distributions
in your income to the extent the insurer keeps them to
pay premiums or other consideration for the contract.

• Certain loans. See Loans Treated as Distributions,
later.

• The value of annuity contracts transferred without full

and adequate consideration. See Transfers of Annuity
Contracts, later.

Corrective distributions of excess plan contributions.
Generally, if the contributions made for you during the year
to certain retirement plans exceed certain limits, the excess is taxable to you. To correct an excess, your plan
may distribute it to you (along with any income earned on
the excess). Although the plan reports the corrective distributions on Form 1099-R, the distribution isn’t treated as a
nonperiodic distribution from the plan. It isn’t subject to the
allocation rules explained in the following discussion, it
Publication 575 (2025)

Worksheet A. Simplified Method Worksheet for Bill Smith

Keep for Your Records

1. Enter the total pension or annuity payments received this year. Also, add this amount to the total
for Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter your cost in the plan (contract) at the annuity starting date plus any death benefit
exclusion.* See Cost (Investment in the Contract) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note: If your annuity starting date was before this year and you completed this worksheet last
year, skip line 3 and enter the amount from line 4 of last year’s worksheet on line 4 below (even if
the amount of your pension or annuity has changed). Otherwise, go to line 3.
3. Enter the appropriate number from Table 1 below. But if your annuity starting date was after
1997 and the payments are for your life and that of your beneficiary, enter the appropriate
number from Table 2 below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Divide line 2 by the number on line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Multiply line 4 by the number of months for which this year’s payments were made. If your
annuity starting date was before 1987, enter this amount on line 8 below and skip lines 6, 7, 10,
and 11. Otherwise, go to line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6. Enter any annuity amounts received after 1986 that you previously recovered tax free. This is the
amount shown on line 10 of your worksheet for last year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Subtract line 6 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. Taxable amount for year. Subtract line 8 from line 1. Enter the result, but not less than zero.
Also, add this amount to the total for Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b. Note: If your
Form 1099-R shows a larger taxable amount, use the amount figured on this line instead. If you
are a retired public safety officer, see Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety Officers
before entering an amount on your tax return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10. Was your annuity starting date before 1987?
Yes. STOP. Don’t complete the rest of this worksheet.
No. Add lines 6 and 8. This is the amount you have recovered tax free through 2025. You will
need this number if you need to fill out this worksheet next year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11. Balance of cost to be recovered. Subtract line 10 from line 2. If zero, you won’t have to
complete this worksheet next year. The payments you receive next year will generally be fully
taxable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

$ 14,400

2.

31,000

3.

310

4.

100

5.

1,200

6.

-0-

7.

31,000

8.

1,200

9.

$ 13,200

10.

1,200

11.

$ 29,800

* A death benefit exclusion (up to $5,000) applied to certain benefits received by employees who died before August 21, 1996.

IF the age at annuity
starting date was...
55 or under
56–60
61–65
66–70
71 or older

Table 1 for Line 3 Above
AND your annuity starting date was—
BEFORE November 19,
AFTER November 18,
1996, enter on line 3...
1996, enter on line 3...
300
360
260
310
240
260
170
210
120
160

Table 2 for Line 3 Above
IF the combined ages at
annuity starting date were...
110 or under
111–120
121–130
131–140
141 or older

Publication 575 (2025)

THEN enter
on line 3...
410
360
310
260
210

15

can’t be rolled over into another plan, and it isn’t subject to
the additional tax on early distributions.
If your retirement plan made a corrective distribu-

TIP tion of excess amounts (excess deferrals, excess

contributions, or excess annual additions), your
Form 1099-R should have the code “8,” “B,” “E,” or “P” in
box 7.
For information on plan contribution limits and how to
report corrective distributions of excess contributions, see
Retirement Plan Contributions under Employee Compensation in Pub. 525.

Figuring the Taxable Amount
How you figure the taxable amount of a nonperiodic distribution depends on whether it is made before the annuity
starting date, or on or after the annuity starting date. If it is
made before the annuity starting date, its tax treatment
also depends on whether it is made under a qualified or
nonqualified plan. If it is made under a nonqualified plan,
its tax treatment depends on whether it fully discharges
the contract, is received under certain life insurance or endowment contracts, or is allocable to an investment you
made before August 14, 1982.
You may be able to roll over the taxable amount of

TIP a nonperiodic distribution from a qualified retire-

ment plan into another qualified retirement plan or
a traditional IRA tax free. See Rollovers, later. If you don’t
make a tax-free rollover and the distribution qualifies as a
lump-sum distribution, you may be able to elect an optional method of figuring the tax on the taxable amount.
See Lump-Sum Distributions, later.
Annuity starting date. The annuity starting date is either
the first day of the first period for which you receive an annuity payment under the contract or the date on which the
obligation under the contract becomes fixed, whichever is
later.
Distributions of employer securities. If you receive a
distribution of employer securities from a qualified retirement plan, you may be able to defer the tax on the net unrealized appreciation (NUA) in the securities. The NUA is
the net increase in the securities’ value while they were in
the trust. This tax deferral applies to distributions of the
employer corporation’s stocks, bonds, registered debentures, and debentures with interest coupons attached.
If the distribution is a lump-sum distribution, tax is deferred on all of the NUA unless you choose to include it in
your income for the year of the distribution.
A lump-sum distribution for this purpose is the distribution or payment of a plan participant’s entire balance
(within a single tax year) from all of the employer’s qualified plans of one kind (pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus plans) but only if paid:

• Because of the plan participant’s death;
• After the participant reaches age 591/2;

16

• Because the participant, if an employee, separates
from service; or

• After the participant, if a self-employed individual, becomes totally and permanently disabled.

If you choose to include NUA in your income for

TIP the year of the distribution and the participant was

born before January 2, 1936, you may be able to
figure the tax on the NUA using the optional methods. See
Lump-Sum Distributions, later.

If the distribution isn’t a lump-sum distribution, tax is deferred only on the NUA resulting from employee contributions other than deductible voluntary employee contributions.
The NUA on which tax is deferred should be shown in
box 6 of the Form 1099-R you receive from the payer of
the distribution.
When you sell or exchange employer securities with
tax-deferred NUA, any gain is long-term capital gain up to
the amount of the NUA that isn’t included in your basis in
the employer securities. Any gain that is more than the
NUA is long-term or short-term gain, depending on how
long you held the securities after the distribution.
Your basis in the employer securities is the total of the
following amounts.

• Your contributions to the plan that are attributable to
the securities.

• Your employer’s contributions that were taxed as ordinary income in the year the securities were distributed.

• Your NUA in the securities that is attributable to em-

ployer contributions and taxed as ordinary income in
the year the securities were distributed.

How to report. Enter the total amount of a nonperiodic
distribution on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5a.
Enter the taxable amount of the distribution on Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b. However, if you make a
tax-free rollover or elect an optional method of figuring the
tax on a lump-sum distribution, see How to report in the
discussions of those tax treatments, later.

Distribution On or After Annuity Starting
Date
If you receive a nonperiodic payment from your annuity
contract on or after the annuity starting date, you must
generally include all of the payment in gross income. For
example, a cost-of-living increase in your pension after the
annuity starting date is an amount not received as an annuity and, as such, is fully taxable.
Reduction in subsequent payments. If the annuity payments you receive are reduced because you received a
nonperiodic distribution, you can exclude part of the nonperiodic distribution from gross income. The part you can
exclude is equal to your cost in the contract reduced by
any tax-free amounts you previously received under the
contract, multiplied by a fraction. The numerator is the reduction in each annuity payment because of the
Publication 575 (2025)

nonperiodic distribution. The denominator is the full unreduced amount of each annuity payment originally provided for.
Single-sum payment in connection with the start of
annuity payments. If you receive a single-sum payment
on or after your annuity starting date in connection with
the start of annuity payments for which you must use the
Simplified Method, treat the single-sum payment as if it
were received before your annuity starting date. (See Simplified Method under Taxation of Periodic Payments, earlier, for information on its required use.) Follow the rules
discussed under Distribution Before Annuity Starting Date
From a Qualified Plan, later.
Distribution in full discharge of contract. You may receive an amount on or after the annuity starting date that
fully satisfies the payer’s obligation under the contract.
The amount may be a refund of what you paid for the contract or for the complete surrender, redemption, or maturity of the contract. Include the amount in gross income
only to the extent that it exceeds the remaining cost of the
contract.

Distribution Before Annuity Starting Date
From a Qualified Plan
If you receive a nonperiodic distribution before the annuity
starting date from a qualified retirement plan, you can generally allocate only part of it to the cost of the contract. You
exclude from your gross income the part that you allocate
to the cost. You include the remainder in your gross income.
For this purpose, a qualified retirement plan is a:

• Qualified employee plan (or annuity contract purchased by such a plan),

• Qualified employee annuity plan, or
• Tax-sheltered annuity plan (403(b) plan).
Use the following formula to figure the tax-free amount
of the distribution.

Amount
received

x

Cost of contract
Account balance

=

Tax-free
amount

For this purpose, your account balance includes only
amounts to which you have a nonforfeitable right (a right
that can’t be taken away).
Example. Ann Brown received a $50,000 distribution
from her retirement plan before her annuity starting date.
She had $10,000 invested (cost) in the plan. Her account
balance was $100,000. She can exclude $5,000 of the
$50,000 distribution, figured as follows.

$50,000

x

$10,000
$100,000

=

$5,000

Defined contribution plan. A defined contribution plan
is a plan in which you have an individual account. Your
benefits are based only on the amount contributed to the
account and the income, gains or losses, etc., which may
be allocated to that account. Under a defined contribution
plan, your contributions (and income allocable to those
contributions) may be treated as a separate contract for
figuring the taxable part of any distribution. The employer
contributions (and income allocable to those contributions) wouldn’t be considered part of that separate contract.
Example. Ryan participates in a defined contribution
plan that treats employee contributions and earnings allocable to them as a separate contract. He received a
non-annuity distribution of $5,000 before his annuity starting date. He had made after-tax contributions of $10,000.
The earnings allocable to his contributions were $2,500.
His employer also contributed $10,000. The earnings allocable to the employer contributions were $2,500.
To determine the tax-free amount of Ryan’s distribution,
use the same formula shown earlier. However, because
employee contributions are treated as a separate contract,
the account balance would be the total of Ryan’s contributions and allocable earnings.
Thus, the tax-free amount would be $5,000 × ($10,000
÷ $12,500) = $4,000. The taxable amount would be
$1,000 ($5,000 − $4,000).
If the employee contributions weren’t treated as a separate contract, the tax-free amount would be $2,000
($5,000 × ($10,000 ÷ $25,000)) and the taxable amount
would be $3,000 ($5,000 − $2,000).
Plans that permitted withdrawal of employee contributions. If you contributed before 1987 to a pension plan
that, as of May 5, 1986, permitted you to withdraw your
contributions before your separation from service, any distribution before your annuity starting date is tax free to the
extent that it, when added to earlier distributions received
after 1986, doesn’t exceed your cost as of December 31,
1986. Apply the allocation described in the preceding discussion only to any excess distribution.

Distribution Before Annuity Starting Date
From a Nonqualified Plan
If you receive a nonperiodic distribution before the annuity
starting date from a plan other than a qualified retirement
plan (nonqualified plan), it is allocated first to earnings (the
taxable part) and then to the cost of the contract (the
tax-free part). This allocation rule applies, for example, to
a commercial annuity contract you bought directly from
the issuer. You include in your gross income the smaller
of:

• The nonperiodic distribution, or
Publication 575 (2025)

17

• The amount by which the cash value of the contract

(figured without considering any surrender charge) immediately before you receive the distribution exceeds
your investment in the contract at that time.

Example. You bought an annuity from an insurance
company. Before the annuity starting date under your annuity contract, you received a $7,000 distribution. At the
time of the distribution, the annuity had a cash value of
$16,000 and your investment in the contract was $10,000.
The distribution is allocated first to earnings, so you must
include $6,000 ($16,000 − $10,000) in your gross income.
The remaining $1,000 ($7,000 − $6,000) is a tax-free return of part of your investment.
Exception to allocation rule. Certain nonperiodic distributions received before the annuity starting date aren’t
subject to the allocation rule in the preceding discussion.
Instead, you include the amount of the payment in gross
income only to the extent that it exceeds the cost of the
contract.
This exception applies to the following distributions.

• Distributions in full discharge of a contract that you receive as a refund of what you paid for the contract or
for the complete surrender, redemption, or maturity of
the contract.

• Distributions from life insurance or endowment con-

tracts (other than modified endowment contracts, as
defined in section 7702A of the Internal Revenue
Code) that aren’t received as an annuity under the
contracts.

• Distributions under contracts entered into before August 14, 1982, to the extent that they are allocable to
your investment before August 14, 1982.

If you bought an annuity contract before August 14,
1982, and made investments both before and after August
14, 1982, the distributed amounts are allocated to your investment or to earnings in the following order.
1. The part of your investment that was made before August 14, 1982. This part of the distribution is tax free.
2. The earnings on the part of your investment that was
made before August 14, 1982. This part of the distribution is taxable.
3. The earnings on the part of your investment that was
made after August 13, 1982. This part of the distribution is taxable.
4. The part of your investment that was made after August 13, 1982. This part of the distribution is tax free.
The taxable portion of distributions from nonqualified plans is subject to the NIIT. See the InstrucCAUTION tions for Form 8960.

!

Distribution of U.S. savings bonds. If you receive U.S.
savings bonds in a taxable distribution from a retirement
or profit-sharing plan, report the value of the bonds at the
time of distribution as income. The value of the bonds includes accrued interest. When you cash the bonds, your
18

Form 1099-INT will show the total interest accrued, including the part you reported when the bonds were distributed
to you. For information on how to adjust your interest income for U.S. savings bond interest you previously reported, see How To Report Interest Income in chapter 1 of
Pub. 550, Investment Income and Expenses.

Loans Treated as Distributions
If you borrow money from your retirement plan, you must
treat the loan as a nonperiodic distribution from the plan
unless it qualifies for the exception to this loan-as-distribution rule explained later. This treatment also applies to any
loan under a contract purchased under your retirement
plan, and to the value of any part of your interest in the
plan or contract that you pledge or assign (or agree to
pledge or assign). It applies to loans from both qualified
and nonqualified plans, including commercial annuity contracts you purchase directly from the issuer. Further, it applies if you renegotiate, extend, renew, or revise a loan
that qualified for the exception below if the altered loan
doesn’t qualify. In that situation, you must treat the outstanding balance of the loan as a distribution on the date
of the transaction.
You determine how much of the loan is taxable using
the allocation rules for nonperiodic distributions discussed
under Figuring the Taxable Amount, earlier. The taxable
part may be subject to the additional tax on early distributions. It isn’t an eligible rollover distribution and doesn’t
qualify for the 10-year tax option.
Exception for qualified plan, 403(b) plan, and governmental plan loans. At least part of certain loans under a
qualified employee plan, qualified employee annuity,
tax-sheltered annuity (403(b) plan), or governmental plan
isn’t treated as a distribution from the plan. This exception
to the loan-as-distribution rule applies only to a loan that
either:

• Is used to acquire your main home, or
• Must be repaid within 5 years.
If a loan qualifies for this exception, you must treat it as
a nonperiodic distribution only to the extent that the loan,
when added to the outstanding balances of all your loans
from all plans of your employer (and certain related employers, defined later), exceeds the lesser of:

• $50,000; or
• Half the present value (but not less than $10,000) of

your nonforfeitable accrued benefit under the plan, determined without regard to any accumulated deductible employee contributions.

You must reduce the $50,000 amount if you already
had an outstanding loan from the plan during the 1-year
period ending the day before you took out the loan. The
amount of the reduction is your highest outstanding loan
balance during that period minus the outstanding balance
on the date you took out the new loan. If this amount is
zero or less, ignore it.

Publication 575 (2025)

Substantially level payments. To qualify for the exception to the loan-as-distribution rule, the loan must require substantially level payments at least quarterly over
the life of the loan. If the loan is from a designated Roth
account, the payments must be satisfied separately for
that part of the loan and for the part of the loan from other
accounts under the plan. This level payment requirement
doesn’t apply to the period in which you are on a leave of
absence without pay or with a rate of pay that is less than
the required installment. Generally, this leave of absence
must not be longer than 1 year. You must repay the loan
within 5 years from the date of the loan (unless the loan
was used to acquire your main home). Your installment
payments after the leave ends must not be less than your
original payments.
However, if your plan suspends your loan payments for
any part of the period during which you are in the uniformed services, you won’t be treated as having received
a distribution even if the suspension is for more than 1
year and the term of the loan is extended. The loan payments must resume upon completion of such period and
the loan must be repaid in substantially level installments
within 5 years from the date of the loan (unless the loan
was used to acquire your main home) plus the period of
suspension.
Example 1. On May 1, 2025, you borrowed $40,000
from your retirement plan. The loan was to be repaid in
level monthly installments over 5 years. The loan wasn’t
used to acquire your main home. You make 9 monthly
payments and start an unpaid leave of absence that lasts
for 12 months. You weren’t in the uniformed services during this period. After the leave period ends and you resume active employment, you resume making repayments
on the loan. You must repay this loan by April 30, 2030 (5
years from the date of this loan). You can increase your
monthly installments or you can make the original monthly
installments and on April 30, 2030, pay the balance.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that you are on a leave of absence performing
service in the uniformed services for 2 years. The loan
payments were suspended for that period. You must resume making loan payments at the end of that period and
the loan must be repaid by April 30, 2032 (5 years from
the date of the loan plus the period of suspension, which
is 2 years in this example).
Related employers and related plans. In determining loan balances for purposes of applying the exception
to the loan-as-distribution rule, you must add the balances
of all your loans from all plans of your employer and from
all plans of your employers who are treated as a single
employer. Treat separate employers’ plans as plans of a
single employer if they are treated that way under other
qualified retirement plan rules because the employers are
related.
Employers are related if they are:

• Members of a controlled group of corporations,
• Businesses under common control, or
• Members of an affiliated service group.
Publication 575 (2025)

An affiliated service group is generally two or more
service organizations whose relationship involves an ownership connection. Their relationship also includes the
regular or significant performance of services by one organization for or in association with another.
Denial of interest deduction. If the loan from a qualified plan isn’t treated as a distribution because the exception applies, you can’t deduct any of the interest on the
loan during any period that:

• The loan is secured by amounts from elective defer-

rals under a qualified cash or deferred arrangement
(section 401(k) plan) or a salary reduction agreement
to purchase a tax-sheltered annuity, or

• You are a key employee as defined in section 416(i) of
the Internal Revenue Code.

Reporting by plan. If your loan is treated as a distribution (deemed distribution), you should receive a Form
1099-R showing code “L” in box 7. If your loan is treated
as a qualified plan loan offset, you should receive a Form
1099-R showing code “M” in box 7. If your loan is not a
qualified plan loan offset, no code will be reported on
Form 1099-R for the offset.
Effect on investment in the contract. If your loan is
treated as a distribution, you must reduce your investment
in the contract to the extent that the distribution is tax free
under the allocation rules for qualified plans, explained
earlier. Repayments of the loan increase your investment
in the contract to the extent that the distribution is taxable
under those rules.
If you receive a loan under a nonqualified plan other
than a 403(b) plan, including a commercial annuity contract that you purchase directly from the issuer, you increase your investment in the contract to the extent that
the distribution is taxable under the general allocation rule
for nonqualified plans, explained earlier. Repayments of
the loan don’t affect your investment in the contract. However, if the distribution is excepted from the general allocation rule (for example, because it is made under a contract
entered into before August 14, 1982), you reduce your investment in the contract to the extent that the distribution
is tax free and increase it for loan repayments to the extent
that the distribution is taxable.

Transfers of Annuity Contracts
If you transfer without full and adequate consideration an
annuity contract issued after April 22, 1987, you are treated as receiving a nonperiodic distribution. The distribution equals the excess of:

• The cash surrender value of the contract at the time of
transfer, over

• Your investment in the contract at that time.
This rule doesn’t apply to transfers between spouses or
transfers between former spouses incident to a divorce.
Tax-free exchange. No gain or loss is recognized on an
exchange of an annuity contract for another annuity
19

contract if the insured or annuitant remains the same.
However, if an annuity contract is exchanged for a life insurance or endowment contract, any gain due to interest
accumulated on the contract is ordinary income.
If you transfer a full or partial interest in a tax-sheltered
annuity that isn’t subject to restrictions on early distributions to another tax-sheltered annuity, the transfer qualifies for nonrecognition of gain or loss.
If you exchange an annuity contract issued by a life insurance company that is subject to a rehabilitation, conservatorship, or similar state proceeding for an annuity
contract issued by another life insurance company, the exchange qualifies for nonrecognition of gain or loss. The
exchange is tax free even if the new contract is funded by
two or more payments from the old annuity contract. This
also applies to an exchange of a life insurance contract for
a life insurance, endowment, annuity, or qualified
long-term care insurance contract.
If you transfer part of the cash surrender value of an existing annuity contract for a new annuity contract issued by
another insurance company, the transfer qualifies for nonrecognition of gain or loss. The funds must be transferred
directly between the insurance companies. Your investment in the original contract immediately before the exchange is allocated between the contracts based on the
percentage of the cash surrender value allocated to each
contract.
Example. You own an annuity contract issued by ABC
Insurance. You assign 60% of the cash surrender value of
that contract to DEF Insurance to purchase an annuity
contract. The funds are transferred directly between the
insurance companies. You don’t recognize any gain or
loss on the transaction. After the exchange, your investment in the new contract is equal to 60% of your investment in the old contract immediately before the exchange.
Your investment in the old contract is equal to 40% of your
original investment in that contract.
Tax-free transfers for certain cash distributions. If
you receive cash from the surrender of one contract and
invest the cash in another contract, you generally don’t
have a tax-free transfer. However, you can elect to receive
tax-free treatment for a cash distribution from an insurance company that is subject to a rehabilitation, conservatorship, insolvency, or similar state proceeding if all of the
following conditions are met.

• You withdraw all the cash to which you are entitled.
• You reinvest the proceeds within 60 days in a single
contract issued by another insurance company.

• You assign all rights to any future distributions to the

new issuer if the cash distribution is restricted by the
state proceeding to an amount that is less than required for full settlement.

• An exchange of these contracts would otherwise qualify as a tax-free transfer.

You must give the new issuer a statement containing
the following information.

• The amount of cash distributed under the old contract.

20

• The amount of cash reinvested in the new contract.
• Your investment in the old contract on the date of the
initial distribution.

You must also attach the following items to your timely
filed income tax return for the year of the initial distribution.

• A copy of the statement you gave to the new issuer.
• A statement that contains the words “ELECTION UN-

DER REV. PROC. 92-44,” the new issuer’s name, and
the policy number or similar identifying information for
the new contract.

Tax-free exchange reported on Form 1099-R. If you
make a tax-free exchange of an annuity contract for another annuity contract issued by a different company, the
exchange will be shown on Form 1099-R with code “6” in
box 7. You need not report this on your tax return.
Date of purchase of contract received in a tax-free
exchange. If you acquire an annuity contract in a tax-free
exchange for another annuity contract, its date of purchase is the date you purchased the annuity you exchanged. This rule applies for determining if the annuity
qualifies for exemption from the tax on early distributions
as an immediate annuity. See Tax on Early Distributions,
later.

Lump-Sum Distributions
Special provisions apply to individuals born be-

TIP fore January 2, 1936. While this publication no

longer includes detailed information on the special tax treatment of lump-sum distributions paid to these
individuals, you can find more information under
Lump-Sum Distributions in the 2024 Pub. 575, available at
IRS.gov/Pub575.
For individuals born on or after January 2, 1936,
lump-sum distributions are taxed as ordinary income unless properly rolled over into an IRA or another qualified
plan. An exception exists for NUA, where employer stock
basis is taxed as ordinary income and appreciation is
taxed later at capital gains rates. These individuals do not
qualify for the 10-year averaging or capital-gain treatment
under Internal Revenue Code section 402(d). Mandatory
20% withholding applies unless a rollover occurs.
Taxable and tax-free parts of the distribution. The
taxable part of a lump-sum distribution is the employer’s
contributions and income earned on your account. You
may recover your cost in the lump sum and any NUA in
employer securities tax free.
Cost. In general, your cost is the total of:

• The plan participant’s nondeductible contributions to
the plan,

• The plan participant’s taxable costs of any life insurance contract distributed,

• Any employer contributions that were taxable to the
plan participant, and

Publication 575 (2025)

• Repayments of any loans that were taxable to the plan
participant.

You must reduce this cost by amounts previously distributed tax free.
Net unrealized appreciation (NUA). The NUA in employer securities (box 6 of Form 1099-R) received as part
of a lump-sum distribution is generally tax free until you
sell or exchange the securities. (See Distributions of employer securities under Figuring the Taxable Amount, earlier.) However, you may choose to include the NUA in income at the time of distribution but only if you elect not to
use NUA treatment. In this case, the full value of the securities is taxed as ordinary income in the year of distribution and no portion qualifies for capital gain treatment under the NUA rules. See the Instructions for Form 4972 for
more details.
Losses. You may be able to claim a loss on your return if
you receive a lump-sum distribution that is less than the
plan participant’s cost. You must receive the distribution
entirely in cash or worthless securities. The amount you
can claim is the difference between the participant’s cost
and the amount of the cash distribution, if any.
However, for tax years after 2017, miscellaneous itemized deductions subject to the 2%-of-adjusted-gross-income limit are suspended and therefore not deductible on
Schedule A (Form 1040).

TIP

A loss under a nonqualified plan, such as a commercial variable annuity, is deductible in the same
manner as a lump-sum distribution.

Rollovers
If you withdraw cash or other assets from a qualified retirement plan in an eligible rollover distribution, you can generally defer tax on the distribution by rolling it over to another qualified retirement plan, a traditional IRA, or, after 2
years of participation in a SIMPLE IRA sponsored by your
employer, a SIMPLE IRA under that plan. You don’t include the amount rolled over in your income until you receive it in a distribution from the recipient plan or IRA without rolling over that distribution. (For information about
rollovers from traditional IRAs, see chapter 1 of Pub.
590-A.)
If you roll over the distribution to a traditional IRA, you
can’t deduct the amount rolled over as an IRA contribution. When you later withdraw it from the IRA, it will be
subject to the normal rules for IRA distributions and will be
taxed as ordinary income.
Self-employed individuals are generally treated as employees for the rules on the tax treatment of distributions,
including the rules for rollovers.
See Designated Roth accounts, later, for information on
rollovers (including in-plan Roth rollovers) related to those
accounts. Also, see Rollovers to Roth IRAs, later, for information on rollovers from a qualified retirement plan to a
Roth IRA.
Publication 575 (2025)

Rollovers to SIMPLE retirement accounts. You can
also roll over amounts from a qualified retirement plan (as
described next) or an IRA into a SIMPLE retirement account as follows.
1. During the first 2 years of participation in a SIMPLE
retirement account, you may roll over amounts from
one SIMPLE retirement account into another SIMPLE
retirement account.
2. After 2 years of participation in a SIMPLE retirement
account, you may roll over amounts from a SIMPLE
retirement account, a qualified retirement plan, or an
IRA into a SIMPLE retirement account.
Qualified retirement plan. For this purpose, the following plans are qualified retirement plans.

• A qualified employee plan.
• A qualified employee annuity.
• A tax-sheltered annuity plan (403(b) plan).
• An eligible state or local governmental section 457 deferred compensation plan.

Eligible rollover distribution. An eligible rollover distribution is any distribution of all or any part of the balance to
your credit in a qualified retirement plan except the following.
1. Any of a series of substantially equal distributions
paid at least once a year over:
a. Your lifetime or life expectancy,
b. The joint lives or life expectancies of you and your
beneficiary, or
c. A period of 10 years or more.
2. A required minimum distribution (RMD) (discussed
later under Tax on Excess Accumulation).
3. Hardship distributions.
4. Corrective distributions of excess contributions or excess deferrals, and any income allocable to these distributions, or of excess annual additions and any allocable gains (see Corrective distributions of excess
plan contributions under Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments, earlier).
5. A loan treated as a distribution because it doesn’t satisfy certain requirements either when made or later
(such as upon default), unless the participant’s accrued benefits are reduced (offset) to repay the loan.
See Loans Treated as Distributions, earlier, and the
discussion of plan loan offsets, including qualified
plan loan offsets, under Time for making rollover,
later.
6. Dividends paid on employer securities.
7. The cost of life insurance coverage.
In addition, a distribution to the plan participant’s beneficiary isn’t generally treated as an eligible rollover distribution. However, see Qualified domestic relations order
21

(QDRO), Rollover by surviving spouse, and Rollovers by
nonspouse beneficiary, later.

the distribution into an IRA of a designated trustee or issuer.

Rollover of nontaxable amounts. You may be able to
roll over the nontaxable part of a distribution (such as your
after-tax contributions) made to another qualified retirement plan that is a qualified employee plan or a 403(b)
plan, or to a traditional or Roth IRA. The transfer must be
made either through a direct rollover to a qualified plan or
403(b) plan that separately accounts for the taxable and
nontaxable parts of the rollover or through a rollover to a
traditional or Roth IRA.
If you roll over only part of a distribution that includes
both taxable and nontaxable amounts, the amount you roll
over is treated as coming first from the taxable part of the
distribution.
Any after-tax contributions that you roll over into your
traditional IRA become part of your basis (cost) in your
IRAs. To recover your basis when you take distributions
from your IRA, you must complete Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs, for the year of the distribution. For more information, see the Instructions for Form 8606.

No tax withheld. If you choose the direct rollover option, or have an automatic rollover, no tax will be withheld
from any part of the distribution that is directly paid to the
trustee of the other plan. If any part of the eligible rollover
distribution is paid to you, the payer must generally withhold 20% of it for income tax.

Withholding requirements. If an eligible rollover distribution is paid to you, the payer must withhold 20% of it.
This applies even if you plan to roll over the distribution to
another qualified retirement plan or to an IRA. However,
you can avoid withholding by choosing the direct rollover
option, discussed later. Also, see Choosing the right option at the end of this discussion.
Exceptions. An eligible rollover distribution isn’t subject to withholding to the extent it consists of NUA from
employer securities that can be excluded from your gross
income. (For a discussion of the tax treatment of a distribution of employer securities, see Figuring the Taxable
Amount under Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments, earlier.)
In addition, withholding from an eligible rollover distribution paid to you isn’t required if:

• The distribution and all previous eligible rollover distributions you received during the tax year from the
same plan (or, at the payer’s option, from all your employer’s plans) total less than $200; or

• The distribution consists solely of employer securities,
plus cash of $200 or less instead of fractional shares.

Direct rollover option. You can choose to have any part
or all of an eligible rollover distribution paid directly to another qualified retirement plan that accepts rollover distributions or to a traditional or Roth IRA.
There is an automatic rollover requirement for mandatory distributions. A mandatory distribution is a distribution
made without your consent and before you reach age 62
or normal retirement age, whichever is later. The automatic rollover requirement applies if the distribution is
more than $1,000 and is an eligible rollover distribution.
You can choose to have the distribution paid directly to
you or rolled over directly to your traditional or Roth IRA or
another qualified retirement plan. If you don’t make this
choice, the plan administrator will automatically roll over

22

Payment-to-you option. If an eligible rollover distribution
is paid to you, 20% will generally be withheld for income
tax. However, the full amount is treated as distributed to
you even though you actually receive only 80%. You must
generally include in income any part (including the part
withheld) that you don’t roll over within 60 days to another
qualified retirement plan or to a traditional or Roth IRA.
If you are under age 591/2 when a distribution is paid to
you, you may have to pay a 10% tax (in addition to the regular income tax) on the taxable part (including any tax
withheld) that you don’t roll over. See Tax on Early Distributions, later.
Partial rollovers. If you roll over any part of a
lump-sum distribution, the part you keep will be subject to
ordinary income tax. You will report the taxable part of the
distribution that you don’t roll over as ordinary income on
your tax return.
Rolling over more than amount received. If
you decide to roll over an amount equal to the disCAUTION tribution before withholding, your contribution to
the new plan or IRA must include other money (for example, from savings or amounts borrowed) to replace the
amount withheld.

!

Example. You receive an eligible rollover distribution of
$10,000 from your employer’s qualified employee plan.
The payer withholds $2,000, so you actually receive
$8,000. If you want to roll over the entire $10,000 to postpone including that amount in your income, you will have
to get $2,000 from some other source to add to the $8,000
you actually received.
If you roll over only $8,000, you must include the $2,000
not rolled over in your income for the distribution year.
Also, you may be subject to the 10% additional tax on the
$2,000 if it was distributed to you before you reached age
591/2.
Time for making rollover. You must generally complete
the rollover of an eligible rollover distribution paid to you by
the 60th day following the day on which you receive the
distribution from your employer’s plan.
The IRS may waive the 60-day requirement where the
failure to do so would be against equity or good conscience, such as in the event of a casualty, disaster, or
other event beyond your reasonable control.
Example. In the previous example, you received the
distribution on June 30. To postpone including it in your income, you must complete the rollover by August 29, the
60th day following June 30.

Publication 575 (2025)

Plan loan offset. A plan loan offset is the amount your
employer plan account balance is reduced, or offset, to repay a loan from the plan. How long you have to complete
the rollover of a plan loan offset depends on what kind of
plan loan offset you have. For tax years beginning after
2017, if you have a qualified plan loan offset, you will have
until the due date (including extensions) for your tax return
for the tax year in which the offset occurs to complete your
rollover.
A qualified plan loan offset occurs when a plan loan
in good standing is offset because your employer plan terminates, or because you have a severance from employment. If your plan loan offset occurs for any other reason,
then you have 60 days from the date the offset occurs to
complete your rollover.
Ways to get a waiver of the 60-day rollover requirement. There are three ways to obtain a waiver of the
60-day requirement.

• You qualify for an automatic waiver.
• You self-certify that you meet the requirements of a
waiver.

• You request and receive a private letter ruling granting
a waiver.

For more information about requesting a waiver of the
60-day rollover requirement, rollovers permitted between
the various types of retirement plans (including IRAs), and
other topics regarding rollovers, see Rollovers in Pub.
590-A.
Frozen deposits. If an amount distributed to you becomes a frozen deposit in a financial institution during the
60-day period after you receive it, the rollover period is extended. An amount is a frozen deposit if you can’t withdraw it because of either:

• The bankruptcy or insolvency of the financial institution, or
• A restriction on withdrawals by the state in which the

institution is located because of the bankruptcy or insolvency (or threat of it) of one or more financial institutions in the state.

The 60-day rollover period is extended by the period for
which the amount is a frozen deposit and doesn’t end earlier than 10 days after the amount is no longer a frozen deposit.
Retirement bonds. If you redeem retirement bonds purchased under a qualified bond purchase plan, you can roll
over the proceeds that exceed your basis tax free into an
IRA or qualified employer plan. Subsequent distributions
of those proceeds, however, don’t qualify for the 10-year
tax option or capital gain treatment.
Annuity contracts. If an annuity contract was distributed
to you by a qualified retirement plan, you can roll over an
amount paid under the contract that is otherwise an eligible rollover distribution. For example, you can roll over a
single-sum payment you receive upon surrender of the
contract to the extent it is taxable and isn’t an RMD.
Publication 575 (2025)

Rollovers of property. To roll over an eligible rollover
distribution of property, you must either roll over the actual
property distributed or sell it and roll over the proceeds.
You can’t keep the distributed property and roll over cash
or other property.
If you sell the distributed property and roll over all the
proceeds, no gain or loss is recognized on the sale. The
sale proceeds (including any portion representing an increase in value) are treated as part of the distribution and
aren’t included in your gross income.
If you roll over only part of the proceeds, you are taxed
on the part you keep. You must allocate the proceeds you
keep between the part representing ordinary income from
the distribution (its value upon distribution) and the part
representing gain or loss from the sale (its change in value
from its distribution to its sale).
Example 1. On September 4, 2025, Paul received an
eligible rollover distribution from his employer’s noncontributory qualified employee plan of $50,000 in nonemployer
stock. On September 24, 2025, he sold the stock for
$60,000. On October 2, 2025, he contributed $60,000
cash to a traditional IRA. Paul doesn’t include either the
$50,000 eligible rollover distribution or the $10,000 gain
from the sale of the stock in his income. The entire
$60,000 rolled over will be ordinary income when he withdraws it from his IRA.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that Paul sold the stock for $40,000 and contributed $40,000 to the IRA. Paul doesn’t include the $50,000
eligible rollover distribution in his income and doesn’t deduct the $10,000 loss from the sale of the stock. The
$40,000 rolled over will be ordinary income when he withdraws it from his IRA.
Example 3. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that Paul rolled over only $45,000 of the $60,000
proceeds from the sale of the stock. The $15,000 proceeds he didn’t roll over include part of the gain from the
stock sale. Paul reports $2,500 ($10,000 ÷ $60,000 ×
$15,000) as capital gain and $12,500 ($50,000 ÷ $60,000
× $15,000) as ordinary income.
Example 4. The facts are the same as in Example 2,
except that Paul rolled over only $25,000 of the $40,000
proceeds from the sale of the stock. The $15,000 proceeds he didn’t roll over include part of the loss from the
stock sale. Paul reports $3,750 ($10,000 ÷ $40,000 ×
$15,000) capital loss and $18,750 ($50,000 ÷ $40,000 ×
$15,000) ordinary income.
Property and cash distributed. If both cash and property were distributed and you didn’t roll over the entire distribution, you may designate what part of the rollover is allocable to the cash distribution and what part is allocable
to the proceeds from the sale of the distributed property. If
the distribution included an amount that isn’t taxable
(other than the NUA in employer securities) as well as an
eligible rollover distribution, you may also designate what
part of the nontaxable amount is allocable to the cash distribution and what part is allocable to the property. Your
23

designation must be made by the due date for filing your
tax return, including extensions. You can’t change your
designation after that date. If you don’t make a designation on time, the rollover amount or the nontaxable amount
must be allocated on a ratable basis.
Qualified domestic relations order (QDRO). You may
be able to roll over tax free all or part of a distribution from
a qualified retirement plan that you receive under a
QDRO. (See Qualified domestic relations order (QDRO)
under General Information, earlier.) If you receive the distribution as an employee’s spouse or former spouse (not
as a nonspouse beneficiary), the rollover rules apply to
you as if you were the employee.
Rollover by surviving spouse. You may be able to roll
over tax free all or part of a distribution from a qualified retirement plan you receive as the surviving spouse of a deceased employee. The rollover rules apply to you as if you
were the employee. You can roll over the distribution into a
qualified retirement plan or a traditional or Roth IRA. For a
rollover to a Roth IRA, see Rollovers to Roth IRAs, later.
A distribution paid to a beneficiary other than the employee’s surviving spouse is generally not an eligible rollover distribution. However, see Rollovers by nonspouse
beneficiary next.
Rollovers by nonspouse beneficiary. If you are a designated beneficiary (other than a surviving spouse) of a
deceased employee, you may be able to roll over tax free
all or a portion of a distribution you receive from an eligible
retirement plan of the employee. The distribution must be
a direct trustee-to-trustee transfer to your traditional or
Roth IRA that was set up to receive the distribution. The
transfer will be treated as an eligible rollover distribution
and the receiving plan will be treated as an inherited IRA.
For information on inherited IRAs, see What if You Inherit
an IRA? in chapter 1 of Pub. 590-B.
How to report. Enter the total distribution (before income
tax or other deductions were withheld) on Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5a. This amount should be
shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R. From this amount, subtract any contributions (usually shown in box 5 of Form
1099-R) that were taxable to you when made. From that
result, subtract the amount that was rolled over either directly or within 60 days of receiving the distribution. Enter
the remaining amount, even if zero, on Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b. Also, check box 1 for “Rollovers.”
Written explanation to recipients. The administrator of
a qualified retirement plan must, within a reasonable period of time before making an eligible rollover distribution,
provide you with a written explanation. It must tell you
about all of the following.

• Your right to have the distribution paid tax free directly
to another qualified retirement plan or to a traditional
or Roth IRA.

• The requirement to withhold tax from the distribution if
it isn’t directly rolled over.

24

• The nontaxability of any part of the distribution that

you roll over within 60 days after you receive the distribution.

• Other qualified retirement plan rules that apply, includ-

ing those for lump-sum distributions, alternate payees,
and cash or deferred arrangements.

• How the distribution rules of the plan to which you roll
over the distribution may differ from the rules that apply to the plan making the distribution in their restrictions and tax consequences.

Reasonable period of time. The plan administrator
must provide you with a written explanation no earlier than
90 days and no later than 30 days before the distribution is
made. However, you can choose to have a distribution
made less than 30 days after the explanation is provided
as long as the following two requirements are met.

• You must have the opportunity to consider whether or
not you want to make a direct rollover for at least 30
days after the explanation is provided.

• The information you receive must clearly state that you
have the right to have 30 days to make a decision.

Contact the plan administrator if you have any questions
regarding this information.
Designated Roth accounts. You can roll over an eligible
rollover distribution from a designated Roth account into
another designated Roth account or a Roth IRA. If you
want to roll over the part of the distribution that isn’t included in income, you must make a direct rollover of the entire distribution (see Direct rollover option, earlier) or you
can roll over the entire amount (or any portion) to a Roth
IRA. Also, if you are a plan participant in a 401(k), 403(b),
or 457(b) plan, your plan may permit you to roll over
amounts in those plans to a designated Roth account
within the same plan (in-plan Roth rollover). The rollover of
any untaxed amounts is included in income. See In-plan
Roth rollovers, later.
A qualified distribution from a designated Roth account
isn’t includible in income. (A qualified distribution is defined earlier in the discussion of designated Roth accounts under Taxation of Periodic Payments).
If you roll over only part of an eligible rollover distribution that isn’t a qualified distribution and not paid as a direct rollover contribution, the part rolled over is considered
to be first from the income portion of the distribution.
Example. You receive an eligible rollover distribution
that isn’t a qualified distribution from your designated Roth
account. The distribution consists of $11,000 (investment)
and $3,000 (income earned). Within 60 days of receipt,
you roll over $7,000 into a Roth IRA. The $7,000 consists
of $3,000 of income and $4,000 of investment. Because
you rolled over the part of the distribution that could be included in gross income (income earned), none of the distribution is included in gross income.
In-plan Roth rollovers. If you are a participant in a
401(k), 403(b), or 457(b) plan, your plan may permit you
to roll over any vested amounts from those plans to a
Publication 575 (2025)

designated Roth account within the same plan. The
in-plan Roth rollover must be an eligible rollover distribution (defined earlier under Eligible rollover distribution).
Any untaxed amounts included in the in-plan Roth rollover
must be included in income in the year you receive the
distribution.
You can make the in-plan Roth rollover by direct transfer of the amount from the non-Roth account to your designated Roth account within the same plan. The 20%
mandatory withholding doesn’t apply to in-plan Roth rollovers made by direct rollover. You can also effect the
in-plan Roth rollover by receiving an eligible rollover distribution from your 401(k), 403(b), or 457(b) plan and within
60 days depositing it into a designated Roth account in
the same plan.
Your plan must provide a written explanation of the consequences of making an in-plan Roth rollover. In-plan
Roth rollovers can’t be undone. Unlike rollovers to Roth
IRAs, you can’t later recharacterize an in-plan Roth rollover.
If you received employer securities as a part of
TIP your in-plan Roth rollover distribution, the rollover
is treated as a distribution for the purpose of NUA.
See Distributions of employer securities, earlier.
Mandatory 20% withholding. A payor must normally
withhold 20% when a rollover distribution is paid to you.
However, some part of your distribution may not be subject to the mandatory 20% withholding. Otherwise nondistributable amounts aren’t subject to the mandatory 20%
withholding. An example of otherwise nondistributable
amounts is employer matching contributions in a 401(k)
plan. See Payment-to-you option, earlier.
You can’t roll over amounts from your traditional
TSP to your Roth TSP. See Pub. 721 for more deCAUTION tails.

in gross income any part of a distribution from a qualified
retirement plan that is a return of contributions to the plan
that was taxable to you when paid.
Any amount rolled over into a Roth IRA is subject to the
same rules for converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA.
For more information, see Converting From Any Traditional
IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1 of Pub. 590-A.
How to report. Enter the total amount of the distribution before income tax or deductions were withheld on
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5a. This amount
should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R. From this
amount, subtract any contributions (usually shown in
box 5 of Form 1099-R) that were taxable to you when
made. Enter the remaining amount, even if zero, on Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b. Check box 1 on
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5c, if you have a
rollover, including a direct rollover, from one qualified employer’s plan to another or to an IRA.
If you must include any amount in your gross income, you may have to increase your withholding
CAUTION or make estimated tax payments. See Pub. 505.

!

Choosing the right option. Table 1 may help you decide
which distribution option to choose. Carefully compare the
effects of each option.

Table 1. Comparison of Payment to You
Versus Direct Rollover
Affected item
Withholding

!

How to report. Enter the total amount of the distribution before income tax or deductions were withheld on
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5a. This amount
should be shown in box 1 of Form 1099-R. From this
amount, subtract any contributions (usually shown in
box 5 of Form 1099-R) that were taxable to you when
made. Enter the remaining amount, even if zero, on Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b. Check box 1 on
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5c, if you have a
rollover, including a direct rollover, from one qualified employer’s plan to another or to an IRA.
If you must include any amount in your gross income, you may have to increase your withholding
CAUTION or make estimated tax payments. See Pub. 505.

!

Rollovers to Roth IRAs. You can roll over distributions
directly from a qualified retirement plan (other than a designated Roth account) to a Roth IRA. You must include in
your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement
plan (other than a designated Roth account) that you
would have had to include in income if you hadn’t rolled
them over into a Roth IRA. In addition, the 10% additional
tax on early distributions doesn’t apply. You don’t include
Publication 575 (2025)

When to report
as income

Additional tax

Result of a payment to Result of a direct
you
rollover
The payer must withhold
There is no withholding.
20% of the taxable part.
Any taxable part
(including the taxable
part of any amount
withheld) not rolled over
is income to you in the
year paid.
If you are under age
591/2, a 10% additional
tax may apply to the
taxable part (including
an amount equal to the
tax withheld) that isn’t
rolled over.

Any taxable part isn’t
income to you until later
distributed to you from
the new plan or IRA.
However, see Rollovers
to Roth IRAs for an
exception.

There is no 10%
additional tax. See Tax
on Early Distributions.

Special Additional Taxes
To discourage the use of pension funds for purposes other
than normal retirement, the law imposes additional taxes
on early distributions of those funds and on failures to
withdraw the funds timely. Ordinarily, you won’t be subject
to these taxes if you roll over the entire amount of the early
distributions you receive, as explained earlier. You also
won't be subject to these taxes if you begin drawing out
the funds at a normal retirement age in prorated amounts
25

over your life expectancy. These special additional taxes
are the taxes on:

• Early distributions, and
• Excess accumulation (not receiving minimum distributions).

These taxes are discussed in the following sections.
If you must pay either of these taxes, report them on
Form 5329. However, you don’t have to file Form 5329 if
you owe only the tax on early distributions and your Form
1099-R correctly shows code “1” in box 7. Instead, enter
10% of the taxable part of the distribution on Schedule 2
(Form 1040), line 8. Also check the box on line 8 to indicate that you don’t have to file Form 5329.
Even if you don’t owe any of these taxes, you may have
to complete Form 5329 and attach it to your Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR. You should complete Form 5329 if
you meet an exception to the tax on early distributions but
box 7 of your Form 1099-R doesn’t indicate an exception.

Tax on Early Distributions
Most distributions (both periodic and nonperiodic) from
qualified retirement plans and nonqualified annuity contracts made to you before you reach age 591/2 are subject
to an additional tax of 10%. This tax applies to the part of
the distribution that you must include in gross income. It
doesn’t apply to any part of a distribution that is tax free,
such as amounts that represent a return of your cost or
that were rolled over to another retirement plan. It also
doesn’t apply to corrective distributions of excess deferrals, excess contributions, or excess aggregate contributions (discussed earlier under Taxation of Nonperiodic
Payments).
For this purpose, a qualified retirement plan includes:

• A qualified employee plan (including a qualified cash

or deferred arrangement (CODA) under Internal Revenue Code section 401(k)),

• A qualified employee annuity plan, or
• A tax-sheltered annuity plan (403(b) plan).
To the extent that a distribution is attributable to
amounts an eligible state or local governmental
CAUTION section 457 deferred compensation plan has received in a direct transfer or rollover from a qualified retirement plan, described above, that distribution is considered a distribution from a qualified retirement plan.

!

5% rate on certain early distributions from deferred
annuity contracts. If an early withdrawal from a deferred
annuity is otherwise subject to the 10% additional tax, a
5% rate may apply instead. A 5% rate applies to distributions under a written election providing a specific schedule for the distribution of your interest in the contract if, as
of March 1, 1986, you had begun receiving payments under the election. On line 4 of Form 5329, multiply the line 3
amount by 5% instead of 10%. Attach an explanation to
your return.
26

Distributions from designated Roth accounts allocable to in-plan Roth rollovers within the 5-year period.
If, within the 5-year period starting with the first day of your
tax year in which you rolled over an amount from your
401(k), 403(b), or 457(b) plan to a designated Roth account, you take a distribution from the designated Roth account, you may have to pay the additional 10% tax on
early distributions. You must generally pay the 10% additional tax on any amount attributable to the part of the
in-plan Roth rollover that you had to include in income (recapture amount). A separate 5-year period applies to each
in-plan Roth rollover. See Figuring your recapture amount,
later, to determine the recapture amount, if any.
The 5-year period used for determining whether the
10% early distribution tax applies to a distribution allocable to an in-plan Roth rollover is separately determined for
each in-plan Roth rollover, and isn’t necessarily the same
as the 5-year period used for determining whether a distribution is a qualified distribution.
Figuring your recapture amount. For any early distribution in 2025 from your designated Roth account that
is allocable to an in-plan Roth rollover, you allocate the
amount from box 10 of your 2025 Form 1099-R to the
amounts, if any, you have rolled over into that designated
Roth account.
If you haven’t taken a distribution from your designated
Roth account before 2025, then allocate the amount in
box 10 of your 2025 Form 1099-R to the amounts you reported on the lines listed in the Recapture Allocation Chart
(filling in the Taxable column first, and then the Nontaxable
column for each year) until you have covered the entire
amount in box 10.
If you have taken a distribution from your designated
Roth account prior to 2025, then allocate the amount in
box 10 of your 2025 Form 1099-R to the amounts you reported on the lines listed in the Recapture Allocation Chart
(filling in the Taxable column first, and then the Nontaxable
column for each year). However, don’t start at the beginning; instead, begin with the first line that hasn’t been
used fully for a previous distribution.
Your recapture amount is the sum of the amounts you
allocated for 2011 through 2025 under the Taxable column
in the Recapture Allocation Chart. You will also include
this amount on Form 5329, line 1.
Example. You had an in-plan Roth rollover in 2025 of
$50,000. This is your first in-plan Roth rollover. Your 2025
Form 1040 or 1040-SR includes $30,000 on line 5b, the
taxable portion of the in-plan Roth rollover, and $50,000
on line 5a, the in-plan Roth rollover including $20,000 of
basis.
In December 2025, at age 57, you took a distribution of
$35,000 from your designated Roth account. The 2025
Form 1099-R shows the distribution of $35,000 reported in
box 1, the taxable portion of the distribution of $3,500 reported in box 2a, and the amount of $31,500 allocable to
the in-plan Roth rollover reported in box 10. Because you
had no in-plan Roth rollovers in prior years, you would allocate the $31,500 reported in box 10 of Form 1099-R as
shown in the Example Recapture Allocation Chart.
Publication 575 (2025)

Example Recapture Allocation Chart
Tax year
2010
2011
2012
2022
2023
2024
2025

Keep for Your Records

Taxable
Form 8606, line 23 . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16b;* Form
1040A, line 12b;* or Form
1040NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16b;* Form
1040A, line 12b;* or Form
1040NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5b* . . . . . . . . .

Nontaxable (basis)
Form 8606, line 22 . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16a;** Form
1040A, line 12a;** or Form
1040NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16a;** Form
1040A, line 12a;** or Form
1040NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
$30,000 1040-NR, line 5a** . . . . . . . . . . .
$30,000 Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$1,500

$1,500
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note: The sum of the totals for each column should equal the amount reported in box 10 of your 2025 Form 1099-R.
* Only include those amounts attributable to an in-plan Roth rollover.
** Only include any contributions (usually box 5 of Form 1099-R) that were taxable to you when made and attributable to an in-plan
Roth rollover.

The recapture amount, the amount subject to tax on
early distributions allocable to the in-plan Roth rollover, is
$30,000 ($31,500 − $1,500). Your amount subject to tax
on early distributions reported on Form 5329, line 1, for
this distribution is $33,500 ($30,000 allocable to Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 5b; and $3,500 from box 2a of Form
1099-R).
Exceptions to tax. Certain early distributions are excepted from the early distribution tax. If the payer knows that
an exception applies to your early distribution, distribution
code “2,” “3,” or “4” should be shown in box 7 of your Form
1099-R and you don’t have to report the distribution on
Form 5329. If an exception applies but distribution code
“1” (early distribution, no known exception) is shown in
box 7, you must file Form 5329. Enter the taxable amount
of the distribution shown in box 2a of your Form 1099-R on
line 1 of Form 5329. On line 2, enter the amount that can
be excluded and the exception number shown in the Form
5329 instructions.
If distribution code “1” is incorrectly shown on your

TIP Form 1099-R for a distribution received when you

were age 591/2 or older, include that distribution
on Form 5329. Enter exception number “12” on line 2.
General exceptions. The 10% additional tax doesn’t
apply to distributions that are:

• Made as part of a series of substantially equal peri-

odic payments (made at least annually) for your life (or
life expectancy) or the joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of you and your designated beneficiary (if from a
qualified retirement plan, the payments must begin

Publication 575 (2025)

after separation from service) (see Substantially equal
periodic payments, later);

• Made because you are totally and permanently disabled (see Note, later);

• Made to you because you have received a certification
that you are terminally ill; or

• Made on or after the death of the plan participant or
contract holder.

Disabled. You are considered disabled if you can furnish
proof that you can’t do any substantial gainful activity because of your physical or mental condition. A physician
must determine that your condition can be expected to result in death or be of a long, continued, or indefinite duration.
Distributions to terminally ill individuals. You may be
able to take a distribution from a qualified retirement plan
before reaching age 591/2 and not have to pay the 10%
additional tax on early distributions if you receive the distribution on or after the date you have received a certification by a physician that you are terminally ill.
Terminally ill individual. You are considered terminally
ill if you are certified by a physician as having an illness or
physical condition which can reasonably be expected to
result in death in 84 months or less after the date of the
certification.

27

Certification of terminal illness. A certification of terminal illness must include the following.

• A statement that the individual’s illness or physical

• Phased retirement annuity payments made to federal

employees (see Pub. 721 for more information on the
phased retirement program);

condition can be reasonably expected to result in
death in 84 months or less after the date of certification.

• From a qualified retirement plan for a qualified birth or

• A narrative description of the evidence that was used

• Corrective distributions of the income on excess con-

• It must include the name and contact information of

• From an applicable eligible retirement plan to victims

to support the statement of illness or physical condition.
the physician making the statement.

• The statement must include the date the physician ex-

adoption (for more information, see Qualified birth or
adoption distributions, later);

tributions distributed before the due date of the tax return (including extensions);

of domestic abuse (for more information, see Distributions to victims of domestic abuse, later); or

amined the individual or reviewed the evidence provided by the individual, and the date that the physician
signed the certification.

• From an applicable eligible retirement plan for eligible

• The statement must include the signature of the physi-

Separation from service. In order to meet the requirements for the first two exceptions in the list above,
you must have separated from service in or after the year
in which you reach age 55 (or the earlier of age 50 or with
25 years of service under the plan, whichever is earlier, for
qualified public safety employees and private sector firefighters).
You can’t separate from service before that year. Wait
until you reach the applicable age, described above, and
take a distribution.

cian making the statement, and an attestation from the
physician that, by signing the form, the physician confirms that the physician composed the narrative description based on the physician’s examination of the
individual or the physician’s review of the evidence
provided by the individual.

However, it is not sufficient evidence for an employee
who is a physician to certify the physician’s own terminal
illness.
Additional exceptions for qualified retirement
plans. The 10% additional tax doesn’t apply to distributions that are:

• From a qualified retirement plan after your separation

from service in or after the year you reached age 55
(the earlier of age 50 or 25 years of service under the
plan for qualified public safety employees) (see Separation from service, later);

• From a qualified retirement plan after your separation
from service in or after the year you reached the earlier of age 50 or 25 years of service under the plan if
you are a private sector firefighter;

• From a qualified retirement plan to an alternate payee
under a QDRO;

• From a qualified retirement plan to the extent you have
deductible medical expenses that exceed 7.5% of
your AGI, whether or not you itemize your deductions
for the year;

• From an employer plan under a written election that

provides a specific schedule for distribution of your entire interest if, as of March 1, 1986, you had separated
from service and had begun receiving payments under the election;

• From an employee stock ownership plan for dividends
on employer securities held by the plan;

• From a qualified retirement plan due to an IRS levy of
the plan;

• From elective deferral accounts under 401(k) or
403(b) plans, or similar arrangements, that are
qualified reservist distributions;

28

emergency expenses (for more information, see Distributions for emergency personal expenses, later).

Example. George separated from service from his employer at age 49. In the year he reached age 55, he took a
distribution from his retirement plan. Because he separated from service before he reached age 55, he didn’t meet
the requirements for the exception for a distribution made
from a qualified retirement plan after separating from service in or after reaching age 55.
Qualified public safety employees. If you are a
qualified public safety employee, distributions that are
made from a governmental retirement plan may not be
subject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions.
See Certain distributions to qualified public safety employees, later.
You are a qualified public safety employee if you provided police protection, firefighting services, emergency
medical services, services as a corrections officer, or as a
forensic security employee providing for the care, custody,
or control of forensic patients for a state or municipality.
For tax years beginning after 2015, the definition of
qualified public safety employees is expanded to include:

• Federal law enforcement officers,
• Federal customs and border protection officers,
• Federal firefighters,
• Air traffic controllers,
• Nuclear materials couriers,
• Members of the United States Capitol Police,
• Members of the Supreme Court Police, and
• Diplomatic security special agents of the United
States Department of State.

Publication 575 (2025)

Certain distributions to qualified public safety employees. The exception to the 10% additional tax for
early distributions applies to distributions made to qualified public safety employees from a governmental plan or
distributions made to firefighters from a private sector retirement plan after separation from service on or after they
reach age 50 or with 25 years of service under the plan,
whichever is earlier. The exception also includes distributions to those employees who meet the age or years of
service requirement, as described earlier, who provide
services as a corrections officer or as a forensic security
employee providing for the care, custody, and control of
forensic patients.
Qualified reservist distributions. A qualified reservist distribution isn’t subject to the 10% additional tax on
early distributions. A qualified reservist distribution is a
distribution (a) from elective deferrals under a section
401(k) or 403(b) plan, or a similar arrangement; (b) to an
individual ordered or called to active duty (because they
are a member of a reserve component) for a period of
more than 179 days or for an indefinite period; and (c)
made during the period beginning on the date of the order
or call and ending at the close of the active duty period.
You must be ordered or called to active duty after September 11, 2001.
You can choose to recontribute part or all of the

TIP distributions to an IRA. These additional contribu-

tions must be made within 2 years after your active-duty period ends. Any amount recontributed must be
reported on Form 8606 as a nondeductible contribution.
You can’t take a deduction for these contributions. However, the normal dollar limitations for contributions to IRAs
don’t apply to these special contributions, and you can
make regular contributions to your IRA, up to the amount
otherwise allowable.
Qualified birth or adoption distributions. A qualified
birth or adoption distribution isn’t subject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions. An individual can receive
up to $5,000 from an applicable eligible retirement plan for
a distribution made during the 1-year period beginning on
the date on which a child of the individual is born or the
date on which the legal adoption by the individual of an eligible adoptee is finalized. For more information on qualified birth or adoption distributions, see Notice 2020-68,
which begins on page 567 of Internal Revenue Bulletin
2020-38 at IRS.gov/pub/irs-irb20-38.pdf.
Repayment of qualified birth or adoption distributions limited to 3 years. If you received a qualified birth
or adoption distribution after December 29, 2022, you may
repay the distribution by making one or more contributions
to a qualified plan during the 3-year period beginning on
the day after the date on which the distribution was received.
For distributions received on or before December 29,
2022, you may repay the distribution during the period that
begins after the distribution was received and ending on
the date before January 1, 2026. Any contribution made to
the eligible retirement plan as a repayment of a qualified
Publication 575 (2025)

birth or adoption distribution may be eligible for tax-free
rollover treatment.
Distributions to victims of domestic abuse. If you are
a victim of domestic abuse, a distribution you receive
while under age 59½ is not subject to the 10% additional
tax if it meets certain requirements. This must be a distribution from an eligible retirement plan during the 1-year
period beginning on any date on which the individual is a
victim of domestic abuse by a spouse or domestic partner.
See Notice 2024-55, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2024-28_IRB#NOT-2024-55, for more information.
Distribution limits. An eligible distribution to a domestic abuse victim must not exceed the lesser of
$10,300 or 50% of the present value of the nonforfeitable
accrued benefit of the employee under the plan.
Distributions for emergency personal expenses. An
emergency personal expense distribution is a distribution
from an applicable eligible retirement plan for the purposes of meeting the unforeseeable or immediate financial
needs relating to necessary personal or family emergency
expenses. Examples of emergency personal expenses include, but aren't limited to:

• medical care;
• property loss or damage;
• imminent foreclosure or eviction from primary residence;

• funeral or burial expenses; or
• auto repair.
See Notice 2024-55, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2024-28_IRB#NOT-2024-55, for more information.
Distribution limits. You are limited to taking one
emergency personal expense distribution per calendar
year and the amount you are able to distribute is limited to
$1,000. You are also limited in taking emergency personal
expense distributions in subsequent years as you may not
take this type of distribution in the following 3 calendar
years unless:

• The previous distribution is repaid, or
• The total of elective deferrals and employee contribu-

tions to the plan (the total amounts contributed to the
plan in the case of an individual retirement plan) made
after the previous distribution is at least equal to the
amount of the distribution that has not been repaid.

Repayment of certain early distributions. Contributions made to the eligible retirement plan as a repayment
of one of the early distributions listed below may be eligible for tax-free rollover treatment.

• Emergency personal expense distributions.
• Domestic abuse distributions.
• Terminal illness distributions.
You can make one or more contributions to an eligible
retirement plan during the 3-year period beginning on the
day after the date the distribution was received.
29

You must be a beneficiary of the plan and the total
amount you repay can’t exceed the amount of the distribution you receive regarding one of the early distributions in
the list above.
Additional exceptions for nonqualified annuity contracts. The tax doesn’t apply to distributions that are:

• From a deferred annuity contract to the extent allocable to investment in the contract before August 14,
1982;

• From a deferred annuity contract under a qualified
personal injury settlement;

• From a deferred annuity contract purchased by your
employer upon termination of a qualified employee
plan or qualified employee annuity plan and held by
your employer until your separation from service; or

• From an immediate annuity contract (a single premium
contract providing substantially equal annuity payments that start within 1 year from the date of purchase and are paid at least annually).

Substantially equal periodic payments. The IRS
has provided three general methods of computing the annual distribution amounts for meeting the requirements for
a series of substantially equal periodic payments.
The three methods are generally referred to as the required minimum distribution method (RMD method), the
fixed amortization method, and the fixed annuitization
method.
General descriptions of these methods are as follows.
1. Required minimum distribution method (RMD
method). Under this method, the resulting annual
payment is redetermined for each year.
2. Fixed amortization method. Under this method, the
resulting annual payment is determined once for the
first distribution year and remains the same amount
for each succeeding year.
3. Fixed annuitization method. Under this method, the
resulting annual payment is determined once for the
first distribution year and remains the same amount
for each succeeding year.
The latter two methods may require professional assistance. For information on these methods, see Notice
2022-6 at IRS.gov/irb/2022-05_IRB#NOT-2022-06.
A change from method (2) or (3) to method (1)

TIP isn’t treated as a modification to which the recapture tax (discussed next) applies.

Note: For a series of substantially equal periodic payments starting in 2022, you may apply the guidance either
in Notice 2022-6, or in Revenue Ruling 2002-62 which begins on page 710 of Internal Revenue Bulletin 2002-42 at
IRS.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb02-42.pdf.
Distributions received as periodic payments on or

TIP after December 29, 2022, will not fail to be treated

as substantially equal merely because they are received as an annuity.
30

Recapture tax for changes in distribution method
under equal payment exception. An early distribution
recapture tax may apply if, before you reach age 591/2, the
distribution method under the equal periodic payment exception changes (for reasons other than your death or disability). The tax applies if the method changes from the
method requiring equal payments to a method that
wouldn’t have qualified for the exception to the tax. The recapture tax applies to the first tax year to which the
change applies. The amount of tax is the amount that
would have been imposed had the exception not applied,
plus interest for the deferral period.
The recapture tax also applies after you reach age
591/2 if your payments under a distribution method that
qualifies for the exception are modified within 5 years of
the date of the first payment. In that case, the tax applies
only to payments distributed before you reach age 591/2.
Report the recapture tax and interest on line 4 of Form
5329. Attach an explanation to the form. Don’t enter the
explanation next to the line or enter any amount for the recapture on line 1 or 3 of the form.

Transfers and Rollovers of Assets
Certain transfers and rollovers of assets from qualified
plans or annuity contracts using the substantially equal
periodic payment method are not considered a modification of the distribution method if certain requirements are
met.
Transfers of assets of certain qualified plans.
this purpose, a qualified retirement plan is:

For

• A qualified employee plan (including a qualified CODA
under Internal Revenue Code section 401(k)),

• A qualified employee annuity plan, or
• A tax-sheltered annuity plan (403(b) plan).
Transferor and transferee plans. A qualified plan
distributing its assets using the substantially equal periodic payment method can roll over or transfer some or all
of its assets to another qualified plan. In this situation the
plan transferring the assets is the transferor and the plan
receiving the assets is the transferee.
When a transfer or rollover of assets is not considered a modification of the substantially equal periodic payment method. If a qualified plan is distributing
its assets using the substantially equal periodic payment
method transfers or rolls over some or all of its assets to
another qualified plan, the distributions from the transferee
plan (or a combination of the transferee and transferor
plans (if all its assets were not transferred)) is not considered a modification of the substantially equal periodic payment method if the following requirements are met.

• The transferor plan distributed or is distributing its assets using the substantially equal periodic payment
method.

• Distributions from the transferee and transferor plans

(if applicable) would in combination continue to satisfy
Publication 575 (2025)

Early Distribution Repayments Worksheet
1. Total distribution amount

Keep for Your Records

............................................................

1.

2. Current year repayment amount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Amount repaid in prior years

.........................................................

3.

4. Total repayments. Add lines 2 and 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Distribution amount not repaid. Subtract line 4 from line 1

....................................

5.

..........................................................

6.

7. Value of the retirement plan at the end of the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8. Divide line 6 by line 7. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places). This is your tax-free/
taxable ratio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9. Multiply line 2 by line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

10. Subtract line 9 from line 2. Reduce your AGI by this amount (in addition to any other changes you make) on
your amended return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10.

6. Basis in the retirement plan

Note: Any part of a repayment that doesn't reduce taxable income is treated as a return of basis in the plan.

the requirements of the substantially equal periodic
payment method.

• The distributions from a combination of the transferee
and transferor plans (if applicable) continue to satisfy
the requirements of the substantially equal periodic
payment method as if they had been made only from
the transferor plan.

Transfers of assets of certain nonqualified annuity
contracts. If you have a commercial annuity contract
and use the substantially equal periodic payment method,
you can exchange all or a portion of that contract and that
exchange is not considered a modification of the substantially equal periodic payment method if the exchange
meets certain requirements.
The requirements are:

• The contract being exchanged uses the substantially
equal periodic payment method,

• The contract is being exchanged for another commercial annuity contract, and

• The combination of the distributions from the contract
being exchanged (if not all the value of the contract is
exchanged) and the contract exchanged for continue
to satisfy the requirements of the substantially equal
periodic payment method as if the exchange had not
taken place.

Early Distribution Repayments
Certain early distributions are excepted from the 10% additional tax and may be repaid to an eligible retirement
plan, which includes an IRA. These distributions are
known as early distributions whose repayments are treated as direct rollovers.
Early distributions whose repayments are treated as
direct rollovers. This phrase describes the following distributions.

• Qualified disaster recovery distribution.
Publication 575 (2025)

• Qualified birth or adoption distributions.
• Emergency personal expense distributions.
• Domestic abuse distributions.
• Terminal illness distributions.
The rules that apply to early distribution repay-

TIP ments also generally apply to the recontribution of

qualified distributions for the purchase or construction of a main home. See Recontribution of Qualified
Distributions for the Purchase or Construction of a Main
Home, for more information.
Repaying the distribution. When you make a repayment of certain early distributions affects how you report
the distribution and repayment. Generally, if you make the
distribution and a repayment in the same tax year, you can
report the amount of the distribution, report the amount of
the repayment of the distribution, and, if the amount of the
repayment is less than the amount of the distribution, figure and report the taxable portion of the distribution on
Form 1040, line 5b.
However, if you make a repayment in a year following
the year you make the distribution, you will need to amend
the return for the tax year during which you made the distribution. You will lower your income for that year by reflecting the amount of the repayment.
Amend your return by using Form 1040-X, Amended
U.S. Individual Income Tax Return.
Figuring the taxable amount. When you make a repayment in a year other than the distribution year, you must
figure the amount you must reduce your taxable income in
the year of the distribution. If you are repaying less than
the full distribution, you must figure the part of the distribution that was taxable when distributed. This will be the
amount you lower your income on your amended return.
Use the Early Distribution Repayments Worksheet to
figure that part of the distribution that was taxable when
distributed and the amount you lower your taxable income
on your amended return.
31

The tax-free/taxable ratio. The tax-free/taxable ratio is
that fraction arrived at by dividing the retirement plan’s basis by the value of the retirement plan at the end of the
year. This ratio is used to determine what portion of the
distribution you are repaying was taxable when distributed. This will be the amount you reduce your income on
your amended return.
Retirement plan basis
Tax-free/taxable ratio

=

Value of the retirement plan at
the end of the year

Amending Your Return
When you repay an early distribution, you lower the income that was taxable in the year of the distribution. You
correct your taxable income for the year of the distribution
by filing an amended return (Form 1040-X).
Completing your amended return. Enter in column A,
on line 1 of your Form 1040-X, the amount of your AGI on
your original return or the most recent amended return, if
applicable. In column B, enter the amount you’re decreasing your income and the correct amount in column C.
In Part II, on page 2, describe the change you’re making, for example, “I am lowering my adjusted gross income
to reflect the repayment of an early distribution from a retirement plan.” Describe any other changes you are making in addition to the repayment of the early distribution
and adjust the amounts on line 1 accordingly.
For more information about amending your return, see
the Instructions for Form 1040-X.

Tax on Excess Accumulation
To make sure that most of your retirement benefits are
paid to you during your lifetime, rather than to your beneficiaries after your death, the payments that you receive
from qualified retirement plans must begin no later than
your required beginning date (defined later). The payments each year can’t be less than the RMD.

The “correction window” ends on the earliest of the following dates.

• The date of mailing the deficiency notice with respect
to the imposition of this tax.

• The date the tax is assessed.
• The last day of the second tax year that begins after
the date of the tax year in which the additional tax is
imposed.

Waiver. The tax may be waived if you establish that the
shortfall in distributions was due to reasonable error and
that reasonable steps are being taken to remedy the
shortfall. If you believe you qualify for this relief, you must
file Form 5329. Enter “RC” and the amount you want
waived in parentheses on the dotted line(s) next to line(s)
54a and/or 54b, as applicable, and attach a letter of explanation. Subtract this amount from the total shortfall you
figured without regard to the waiver and enter the result on
line(s) 54a and/or 54b, as applicable.
State insurer delinquency proceedings. You might
not receive the minimum distribution because assets are
invested in a contract issued by an insurance company in
state insurer delinquency proceedings. If your payments
are reduced below the minimum because of these proceedings, you should contact your plan administrator. Under certain conditions, you won’t have to pay the 25% tax.
Required beginning date. Unless the rule for 5% owners applies, you must generally begin to receive distributions from your qualified retirement plan by April 1 of the
year that follows the later of:

• The calendar year in which you reach age 73, or
• The calendar year in which you retire from employment with the employer maintaining the plan.

However, your plan may require you to begin to receive
distributions by April 1 of the year that follows the year in
which you reach age 73 even if you haven’t retired.

• A qualified employee plan,
• A qualified employee annuity plan,
• An eligible section 457 deferred compensation plan,

5% owners. If you are a 5% owner, you must begin to
receive distributions from the plan by April 1 of the year
that follows the calendar year in which you reach age 73.
This rule doesn’t apply if your retirement plan is a governmental or church plan.
You are a 5% owner if, for the plan year ending in the
calendar year in which you reach age 73, you own (or are
considered to own under section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code) more than 5% of the outstanding stock (or
more than 5% of the total voting power of all stock) of the
employer, or more than 5% of the capital or profits interest
in the employer.

• A tax-sheltered annuity plan (403(b) plan) (for benefits

Required distributions. By the required beginning date,
you must either:

If the actual distributions to you in any year are less
than the RMD for that year, you are subject to an additional tax. The tax equals 25% of the part of the RMD that
wasn’t distributed.
For this purpose, a qualified retirement plan includes:

or

accruing after 1986).

Reduced tax rate for excess accumulations. You may
be subject to a reduced additional tax rate of 10% of the
amount not distributed if, during the correction window,
you take a distribution of the amount on which the tax is
due and submit a tax return reflecting this additional tax.
32

• Receive your entire interest in the plan (for a tax-shel-

tered annuity, your entire benefit accruing after 1986),
or

• Begin receiving periodic distributions in annual

amounts calculated to distribute your entire interest
Publication 575 (2025)

(for a tax-sheltered annuity, your entire benefit accruing after 1986) over your life or life expectancy or over
the joint lives or joint life expectancies of you and a
designated beneficiary (or over a shorter period).
After the starting year for periodic distributions, you
must receive at least the RMD for each year by December
31 of that year. (The starting year is the year in which you
reach age 73 or retire, whichever applies in determining
your required beginning date.) If no distribution is made in
your starting year, the RMDs for 2 years must be made the
following year (one by April 1 and one by December 31).
If you are an employee with a designated Roth ac-

TIP count, you aren't required to take distributions

from the designated Roth account at any age.
These RMD rules don't apply to your designated Roth account during your lifetime.
Distributions after the employee’s death. If the employee was receiving periodic distributions before their
death and the employee dies after the required beginning
date, any payments not made as of the time of death must
generally be distributed at least as rapidly as under the
distribution method being used at the date of death.
In addition, if distributions are being made from a defined contribution plan and the employee’s beneficiary is
not an eligible designated beneficiary, any payments not
made as of the time of death must be distributed within 10
years after the death of the employee. An eligible designated beneficiary is the employee’s spouse, the employee’s
child who has not reached majority, a disabled individual,
a chronically ill individual, or an individual not more than
10 years younger than the employee.
If the employee dies before the required beginning
date, the entire account must be distributed under one of
the following rules.

• Rule 1. The distribution must be completed by De-

cember 31 of the 5th year following the year of the employee’s death if the employee was a participant in a
defined benefit plan or if there’s no designated beneficiary.

• Rule 2. The distribution must be completed by De-

cember 31 of the 10th year following the year of the
employee’s death if the employee was a participant in
a defined contribution plan and designated an individual as the beneficiary under the plan.

• Rule 3. The distribution must be made in annual

amounts over the life of an individual designated as a
beneficiary under a defined benefit plan or life expectancy of an eligible designated beneficiary under a defined contribution plan.

The terms of the plan may determine which of these
three rules applies. If the plan permits the employee or the
eligible designated beneficiary to choose the rule that applies, this choice must be made by the earliest date a distribution would be required under either of the rules. Generally, this date is December 31 of the year following the
year of the employee’s death.
If the employee or the eligible designated beneficiary
didn’t choose a rule and the plan doesn’t specify the rule
Publication 575 (2025)

that applies, distributions must be made under Rule 3 if
the employee has an eligible designated beneficiary (or in
the case of a defined benefit plan, an individual was designated as the beneficiary under the plan) or under Rule 2
if the employee was a participant in a defined contribution
plan, and has designated an individual as the beneficiary
under the plan, but that individual isn’t an eligible designated beneficiary. If an employee doesn’t have a designated
beneficiary, distribution must be made under Rule 1.
Distributions under Rule 3 must generally begin by December 31 of the year following the year of the employee’s
death. However, if the surviving spouse is the beneficiary,
distributions need not begin until December 31 of the year
the employee would have reached age 73, if later.
If the surviving spouse is the designated beneficiary
and distributions are to be made under Rule 3, a special
rule applies if the spouse dies after the employee but before distributions are required to begin. In this case, distributions may be made to the spouse’s beneficiary under
either Rule 1, Rule 2, or Rule 3 as though the beneficiary
were the employee’s beneficiary and the employee died
on the spouse’s date of death. However, if the surviving
spouse remarries after the employee’s death and the new
spouse is designated as the spouse’s beneficiary, this
special rule applicable to surviving spouses doesn’t apply
to the new spouse.
If distributions from a defined contribution plan began
under Rule 3 and the eligible designated beneficiary dies
or a beneficiary who is a minor child reaches majority, distributions must be completed by December 31 of the 10th
year following the year of the beneficiary’s death or the
child reaching majority.
Minimum distributions from an annuity plan. Special
rules may apply if you receive distributions from your retirement plan in the form of an annuity. Your plan administrator should be able to give you information about these
rules.
Minimum distributions from an individual account
plan. Your plan administrator should be able to give you
information about how the amount of your RMD was figured.
If there is an account balance to be distributed from
your plan (not as an annuity), your plan administrator must
figure the minimum amount that must be distributed from
the plan each year.
What types of installments are allowed? The minimum amount that must be distributed for any year may be
made in a series of installments (for example, monthly or
quarterly) as long as the total payments for the year made
by the date required aren’t less than the minimum amount
required for the year.
More than minimum. Your plan can distribute more in
any year than the minimum amount required for that year;
but if it does, you won’t receive credit for the additional
amount in determining the minimum amount required for
future years. However, any amount distributed in your
starting year will be credited toward the amount required
to be distributed by April 1 of the following year.
33

Combining multiple accounts to satisfy the minimum
distribution requirements. Generally, the RMD must be
figured separately for each account. Each qualified employee retirement plan and qualified annuity plan must be
considered individually in satisfying its distribution requirements. However, if you have more than one tax-sheltered
annuity account, you can total the RMDs and then satisfy
the requirement by taking distributions from any one (or
more) of the tax-sheltered annuities.

Survivors and Beneficiaries
Generally, a survivor or beneficiary reports pension or annuity income in the same way the plan participant would
have reported it. However, some special rules apply, and
they are covered elsewhere in this publication as well as in
this section.
Estate tax deduction. You may be entitled to a deduction for estate tax if you receive amounts included in your
income as income in respect of a decedent under a joint
and survivor annuity that was included in the decedent’s
estate. You can deduct the part of the total estate tax that
was based on the annuity, provided that the decedent died
after their annuity starting date. (For details, see Regulations section 1.691(d)-1.) Deduct it in equal amounts over
your remaining life expectancy.
If the decedent died before the annuity starting date of
a deferred annuity contract and you receive a death benefit under that contract, the amount you receive (either in a
lump sum or as periodic payments) in excess of the decedent’s cost is included in your gross income as income in
respect of a decedent for which you may be able to claim
an estate tax deduction.
You can take the estate tax deduction as an itemized
deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040). This deduction
isn’t subject to the 2%-of-adjusted-gross-income limit on
miscellaneous deductions. See Pub. 559, Survivors, Executors, and Administrators, for more information on the
estate tax deduction.
Survivors of employees. Distributions the beneficiary of
a deceased employee gets may be accrued salary payments; distributions from employee profit-sharing, pension, annuity, or stock bonus plans; or other items. Some
of these should be treated separately for tax purposes.
The treatment of these distributions depends on what they
represent.
Salary or wages paid after the death of the employee
are usually the beneficiary’s ordinary income. If you are a
beneficiary of an employee who was covered by any of the
retirement plans mentioned, you can exclude from income
nonperiodic distributions received that totally relieve the
payer from the obligation to pay an annuity. The amount
that you can exclude is equal to the deceased employee’s
investment in the contract (cost).
If you are entitled to receive a survivor annuity on the
death of an employee, you can exclude part of each annuity payment as a tax-free recovery of the employee’s investment in the contract. You must figure the taxable and
34

tax-free parts of each payment using the method that applies as if you were the employee. For more information,
see Taxation of Periodic Payments, earlier.
Survivors of retirees. Benefits paid to you as a survivor
under a joint and survivor annuity must be included in your
gross income. Include them in income in the same way the
retiree would have included them in gross income. See
Partly Taxable Payments under Taxation of Periodic Payments, earlier.
If the retiree reported the annuity under the 3-year Rule
and recovered all of the cost tax free, your survivor payments are fully taxable.
If the retiree was reporting the annuity under the General Rule, you must apply the same exclusion percentage
to your initial survivor annuity payment called for in the
contract. The resulting tax-free amount will then remain
fixed for the initial and future payments. Increases in the
survivor annuity are fully taxable. See Pub. 939 for more
information on the General Rule.
If the retiree was reporting the annuity under the Simplified Method, the part of each payment that is tax free is
the same as the tax-free amount figured by the retiree at
the annuity starting date. This amount remains fixed even
if the annuity payments are increased or decreased. See
Simplified Method under Taxation of Periodic Payments,
earlier.
Guaranteed payments. If you receive guaranteed
payments as the decedent’s beneficiary under a life annuity contract, don’t include any amount in your gross income until your distributions plus the tax-free distributions
received by the life annuitant equal the cost of the contract. All later distributions are fully taxable. This rule
doesn’t apply if it is possible for you to collect more than
the guaranteed amount. For example, it doesn’t apply to
payments under a joint and survivor annuity.

Disaster-Related Relief
Introduction
The special rules that provide for tax-favored withdrawals
and repayments from certain qualified plans for taxpayers
who suffered an economic loss as a result of a qualified
disaster were made permanent by the SECURE 2.0 Act of
2022. See Qualified disaster recovery distributions, later,
for more information.
The principles set forth in Notice 2005-92, 2005-51
I.R.B. 1165, available at IRS.gov/irb/2005-51_IRB (which
provides guidance on the tax-favored treatment of distributions for victims of Hurricane Katrina), generally also
apply to these rules.
If you received a qualified disaster recovery distribution,
it is taxable but isn’t subject to the 10% additional tax on
early distributions. (Use Form 8915-F to figure the taxable
portion of the distribution.) However, the distribution is included in income ratably over 3 years unless you elect to
report the entire amount in the year of distribution. For
Publication 575 (2025)

example, if you received a $18,000 qualified disaster recovery distribution in 2023, you can include $6,000 in your
income in 2023, 2024, and 2025. However, you can elect
to include the entire distribution in your income in the year
it was received. Also, you can repay the distribution and
not be taxed on the distribution. See Repayment of Qualified Disaster Recovery Distributions, later.
If you received a distribution from an eligible retirement
plan to purchase or construct a main home but didn’t purchase or construct a main home because of a major disaster, you may be able to repay the distribution and not
pay income tax or the 10% additional tax on early distributions. See Recontribution of Qualified Distributions for the
Purchase or Construction of a Main Home, later.
Use Form 8915-F to report qualified disaster recovery
distributions and repayments. Also report recontributions
of qualified distributions for home purchases and construction that were canceled because of qualified disasters on Form 8915-F, as applicable.

Qualified Disaster Recovery
Distributions
A qualified disaster recovery distribution is a qualified disaster distribution that meets certain criteria as described
in the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022. It is a distribution made
from an eligible retirement plan to an individual whose
main home was in a qualified disaster area during the period described under Qualified disaster recovery distribution, later. This individual must have sustained an economic loss because of the disaster.
Main home (principal place of abode). Generally, your
main home is the home where you live most of the time. A
temporary absence due to special circumstances, such as
illness, education, business, military service, evacuation,
or vacation, won’t change your main home.
Qualified disaster. A qualified disaster means any major
disaster declared by the President under section 401 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act after December 27, 2020.
Qualified disaster area. A qualified disaster area
means any area with respect to which the major disaster
was declared under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act.
Incident period. The incident period for any qualified
disaster is the period specified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) as the period during which
the disaster occurred.
Qualified disaster recovery distribution. A qualified
disaster recovery distribution is any distribution:

• Made on or after the first day of the incident period of

a qualified disaster and before the date that is 180
days after the applicable date with respect to such disaster,

Publication 575 (2025)

• Made to an individual whose principal place of abode

at any time during such qualified disaster is located in
the qualified disaster area, and

• That individual has sustained an economic loss by
reason of such qualified disaster.

Economic loss. Qualified disaster recovery distributions
are permitted without regard to your need or the actual
amount of your economic loss. Examples of an economic
loss include, but aren’t limited to:
1. Loss, damage to, or destruction of real or personal
property from fire, flooding, looting, vandalism, theft,
wind, or other cause;
2. Loss related to displacement from your home; or
3. Loss of livelihood due to temporary or permanent layoffs.
Eligible retirement plan. An eligible retirement plan can
be any of the following.

• A qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus
plan (including a 401(k) plan).

• The federal TSP.
• A qualified annuity plan.
• A tax-sheltered annuity contract.
• A governmental section 457 deferred compensation
plan.

• A traditional, SEP, SIMPLE, or Roth IRA (including
Roth SEP and SIMPLE IRAs).

Applicable date. The term “applicable date” means
the latest of:

• December 29, 2022;
• The first date of the incident period for the qualified
disaster; or

• The declaration date of the qualified disaster.
Distribution limit for qualified disaster recovery distributions. The total of your qualified disaster recovery
distributions from all plans is limited to $22,000 per disaster. If you take distributions from more than one type of
plan, such as a 401(k) plan and an IRA, and the total
amount of your distribution exceeds $22,000, you may allocate the $22,000 limit among the plans by any reasonable method you choose.
Example. In 2021, you received a distribution of
$16,000. In 2022, you receive a distribution of $10,000 for
the same disaster. Separately, each distribution meets the
requirements for a qualified disaster recovery distribution.
If you decide to treat the entire $16,000 received in 2021
as a qualified disaster distribution, only $6,000 of the 2022
distribution can be treated as a qualified disaster recovery
distribution for the same disaster.

35

Taxation of Qualified Disaster
Recovery Distributions
Qualified disaster recovery distributions are included in income in equal amounts over 3 years. However, if you
elect, you can include the entire distribution in your income in the year it was received.
Qualified disaster recovery distributions aren’t subject
to the 10% additional tax (or the additional 25% tax for
certain distributions from SIMPLE IRAs) on early distributions from qualified retirement plans (including IRAs).
Also, if you are receiving substantially equal periodic payments from a qualified retirement plan, the receipt of a
qualified disaster distribution from that plan won’t be treated as a change in those substantially equal payments
merely because of that distribution. However, any distributions you received in excess of the $22,000 qualified disaster recovery distribution limit may be subject to the additional tax on early distributions.

Repayment of Qualified Disaster
Recovery Distributions
If you choose, you can generally repay any portion of a
qualified disaster recovery distribution that is eligible for
tax-free rollover treatment to an eligible retirement plan.
Also, you can repay a qualified disaster recovery distribution made on account of a hardship from a retirement
plan. However, see Exceptions, later, for qualified disaster
recovery distributions you can’t repay.
You have 3 years from the day after the date you received the distribution to make a repayment. The amount
of your repayment can’t be more than the amount of the
original distribution. Amounts that are repaid are treated
as a trustee-to-trustee transfer and aren’t included in income. Also, for purposes of the one-rollover-per-year limitation for IRAs, a repayment to an IRA isn’t considered a
rollover. For more information on how to report distributions and repayments, see the Instructions for Form
8915-F.

butions during the allowable 3-year period, the amount
repaid will reduce the amount included in income for the
year of distribution. If the repayment is made after the due
date (including extensions) for your return for the year of
distribution, you will need to file, with an amended return,
a revised Form 8915-F (if the repayment is of a qualified
disaster distribution related to a qualified disaster that occurred in 2020 and later years). See Amending Your Return, later.
Example. Maria received a $19,000 qualified disaster
recovery distribution on February 15, 2025. After receiving
a reimbursement from her insurance company for a casualty loss, Maria repays the $19,000 qualified disaster recovery distribution on September 10, 2025. She reports
the distribution and repayment on Form 8915-F, which she
files with her timely filed 2025 tax return. As a result, no
portion of the distribution is included in income on her return.
Repayment of distributions if reporting under the
3-year method. If you are reporting the distribution in income over the 3-year period and you repay any portion of
the distribution to an eligible retirement plan before filing
your tax return, the repayment will reduce the portion of
the distribution that is included in income for the year. If
you repay a portion after the due date (including extensions) for filing your return, the repayment will reduce the
portion of the distribution that is included in income on
your next year’s return, unless you are eligible to amend
your applicable prior year return or returns. (This would be
a return for a year beginning with the year of the distribution and included in the 3-year period.)
If, during a year in the 3-year period, you repay

TIP more than is otherwise includible in income for

that year, the excess may be carried forward or
back to reduce the amount included in income for the
year.

1. Qualified disaster recovery distributions received as a
beneficiary (other than as a surviving spouse).

Example. John received an $18,000 qualified disaster
recovery distribution on November 15, 2025. He doesn’t
elect to include the entire distribution in his 2025 income
but elects to include $6,000 on each of his 2025, 2026,
and 2027 returns. On November 10, 2026, John repays
$9,000. He makes no other repayments during the allowable 3-year period. John may report the distribution and repayment in either of the following ways.

2. RMDs.

• Report $0 in income on his 2026 return and carry the

Exceptions. You can’t repay the following types of distributions.

3. Periodic payments (other than from an IRA) that are
for:
a. A period of 10 years or more,
b. Your life or life expectancy, or
c. The joint lives or joint life expectancies of you and
your beneficiary.

$3,000 excess repayment ($9,000 – $6,000) forward
to 2027 and reduce the amount reported in that year
to $3,000.

• Report $0 income on his 2026 return, report $6,000 on

his 2027 return, and file an amended return for 2025 to
reduce the amount previously included in income to
$3,000 ($6,000 – $3,000).

Repayment of distributions if reporting under the
1-year election. If you elect to include all of your qualified disaster recovery distributions received in a year in income for that year and then repay any portion of the distri36

Publication 575 (2025)

Recontribution of Qualified
Distributions for the Purchase or
Construction of a Main Home

1. Your principal residence at any time during that disaster’s incident period is located in the qualified disaster
area with respect to the disaster.

If you received a qualified distribution to purchase or construct a main home in certain major disaster areas, you
can repay all or any part of that distribution to an eligible
retirement plan.

Examples of an economic loss include, but aren’t limited to:

Applicable recontribution period. You can make this
recontribution (or recontributions) on or after the first day
of the incident period of a qualified disaster under the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022 and ending on the date which is
180 days after the applicable date for that disaster.
Note: A qualified disaster under the SECURE 2.0 Act
of 2022 is any major disaster declared by the President
under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act after December 27, 2020.
Qualified home purchase distribution. To be a qualified distribution, the distribution must meet all of the following requirements.

• The distribution is a hardship distribution from a 401(k)
plan, a hardship distribution from a tax-sheltered annuity plan (403(b) plan), or a qualified first-time homebuyer distribution from an IRA.

• The distribution was received during the period begin-

ning on the date that is 180 days before the first day of
the incident period of the qualified disaster and ending
on the date that is 30 days after the last day of such
incident period.

• The distribution was to be used to purchase or con-

struct a main home in the disaster area and the home
wasn’t purchased or constructed because of the disaster.

Any amount that is recontributed during the applicable
recontribution period is treated as a trustee-to-trustee
transfer and is not included in income.
A qualified recovery distribution not recontributed during the applicable recontribution period may be taxable for
the year distributed and subject to the additional 10% tax
(or the additional 25% tax for certain SIMPLE IRAs) on
early distributions.
See Form 8915-F if you received a qualified distribution
that you recontributed, in whole or in part, before the applicable recontribution period.

Loans From Qualified Plans
The following special rules are available to qualified individuals.

• Increase to the limit for loans from employer retirement
plans.

• A 1-year suspension for payments due on plan loans.
Qualified individual. You are a qualified individual if both
of the following apply.
Publication 575 (2025)

2. You have experienced an economic loss because of
the disaster.

• Loss, damage to, or destruction of real or personal

property from fire, flooding, looting, vandalism, theft,
wind, or other cause;

• Loss related to displacement from your home; or
• Loss of livelihood due to temporary or permanent layoffs.

Limits on plan loans. The $50,000 limit on plan loans is
increased to a maximum of $100,000. Also, the additional
50% of the present value of your nonforfeitable vested accrued benefit limit is increased to 100%.
The higher limits apply to loans made during the following periods.

• Loans made during the period beginning on September 29, 2017 (or February 9, 2018, if in the California
wildfire disaster area), and ending on December 31,
2018.

• Loans made during the period beginning on Decem-

ber 20, 2019, and ending on June 17, 2020, for qualified 2018 and 2019 disasters.

• Loans made during the period beginning December

27, 2020, and ending on June 24, 2021, for qualified
2020 disasters.

• Loans made during the incident period of a disaster
beginning on or after January 26, 2021, and ending
180 days after the applicable date for that disaster.

The applicable date for a qualified disaster would be
the latest of:

• January 26, 2021;
• The first day of the incident period with respect to the
qualified disaster; or

• The date of the declaration with respect to the qualified disaster.

1-year suspension of plan loan payments. Payments
on loans that become due during the period beginning on
the qualified beginning date and ending on the date that is
180 days after the last day of the incident period may be
suspended for 1 year (suspension period) by the administrator. The qualified beginning date is:

• The first day of the incident period of a qualified 2020
disaster; or

• The first day of the incident period of a qualified disaster that was declared by the President under section
401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act after December 27, 2020,
and which begins on or after January 26, 2021.

37

If you are a qualified individual based on more than one
disaster, use the suspension period with the earliest beginning date.

Other Disaster Issues
Amending Your Return
If, after filing your original return, you make a repayment,
the repayment may reduce the amount of your qualified
disaster recovery distributions that were previously included in income. Depending on when a repayment is made,
you may need to file an amended tax return to refigure
your taxable income.
If you make a repayment by the due date of your original return (including extensions), include the repayment
on your amended return.
If you make a repayment after the due date of your original return (including extensions), include it on your amended return only if either of the following applies.

• You elected to include all of your qualified disaster recovery distributions in income in the year of the distributions (not over 3 years) on your original return.

• The amount of the repayment exceeds the portion of

the qualified disaster recovery distributions that is includible in income for the year of the disaster, and you
choose to carry the excess back to a prior year’s tax
return that included part of the distribution in income.

Example. You received a qualified 2023 disaster distribution in the amount of $21,000 in December 2023. You
chose to spread the $21,000 over 3 years ($7,000 in income for 2023, 2024, and 2025). On November 6, 2025,
you make a repayment of $10,000. For 2025, none of the
qualified 2023 disaster distribution is included in income.
The excess repayment of $3,000 could’ve been carried
back to 2024 or 2023, as applicable.
File Form 1040-X to amend a return you have already
filed. Generally, Form 1040-X must be filed within 3 years
after the date the original return was filed, or within 2 years
after the date the tax was paid, whichever is later.

Information for Eligible Retirement Plans
A plan administrator may choose whether to treat a distribution as a qualified disaster recovery distribution, or
whether to accept a rollover of a qualified disaster recovery distribution and may develop reasonable procedures
for determining whether distributions are qualified disaster
recovery distributions. However, the treatment of qualified
disaster recovery distributions must be consistent under
each plan. The payment of a qualified disaster recovery
distribution to an individual must be reported on Form
1099-R. This reporting is required even if the individual recontributes the qualified disaster recovery distribution to
the same plan in the same year. If a payer is treating the
payment as a qualified disaster recovery distribution and
no other appropriate code applies, the payer is permitted
38

to use distribution code “2” (early distribution, exception
applies) in box 7 of Form 1099-R. However, a payer in this
case is also permitted to use distribution code “1” (early
distribution, no known exception) in box 7 of Form 1099-R.

Mandatory 60-Day Postponement
Certain taxpayers affected by a federally declared disaster
that occurs after December 20, 2019, may be eligible for a
mandatory 60-day postponement for certain tax deadlines
such as filing or paying income, excise, and employment
taxes; and making contributions to a traditional IRA or
Roth IRA.
The period beginning on the earliest incident date
specified in the disaster declaration and ending on the
date that is 60 days after either the earliest incident date
or the date of the declaration, whichever is later, is the period during which the deadlines are postponed. For information about disaster relief available in your area, including extensions, go to IRS News Around the Nation.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
Publication 575 (2025)

and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
Publication 575 (2025)

If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the
CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

!

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English,
Spanish, and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Online tax information in other languages. You can
find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t
your native language.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian,
and Haitian Creole.
39

Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You’ll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
40

Publication 575 (2025)

The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information
on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s

free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.

It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our sysCAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able to use
the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information,
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and
appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the
Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and
click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to

Publication 575 (2025)

41

resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t,
then come to TAS. Our services are free.

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn’t working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

42

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

Publication 575 (2025)

Worksheet A. Simplified Method

Keep for Your Records

1. Enter the total pension or annuity payments received this year. Also, add this amount to the total for
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. Enter your cost in the plan (contract) at the annuity starting date plus any death benefit exclusion.*
See Cost (Investment in the Contract) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

Note: If your annuity starting date was before this year and you completed this worksheet last year,
skip line 3 and enter the amount from line 4 of last year’s worksheet on line 4 below (even if the
amount of your pension or annuity has changed). Otherwise, go to line 3.
3. Enter the appropriate number from Table 1 below. But if your annuity starting date was after 1997 and
the payments are for your life and that of your beneficiary, enter the appropriate number from Table 2
below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Divide line 2 by the number on line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Multiply line 4 by the number of months for which this year’s payments were made. If your annuity
starting date was before 1987, enter this amount on line 8 below and skip lines 6, 7, 10, and 11.
Otherwise, go to line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Enter any annuity amounts received after 1986 that you previously recovered tax free. This is the
amount shown on line 10 of your worksheet for last year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7. Subtract line 6 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9. Taxable amount for year. Subtract line 8 from line 1. Enter the result, but not less than zero. Also,
add this amount to the total for Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b.
Note: If your Form 1099-R shows a larger taxable amount, use the amount figured on this line
instead. If you are a retired public safety officer, see Insurance Premiums for Retired Public Safety
Officers before entering an amount on your tax return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

10. Was your annuity starting date before 1987?
Yes. STOP. Don’t complete the rest of this worksheet.
No. Add lines 6 and 8. This is the amount you have recovered tax free through 2025. You will need
this number if you need to fill out this worksheet next year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10.

11. Balance of cost to be recovered. Subtract line 10 from line 2. If zero, you won’t have to complete
this worksheet next year. The payments you receive next year will generally be fully taxable . . . . . . .

11.

* A death benefit exclusion (up to $5,000) applied to certain benefits received by employees who died before August 21, 1996.

IF the age at annuity
starting date was...
55 or under
56–60
61–65
66–70
71 or older

Table 1 for Line 3 Above
AND your annuity starting date was—
BEFORE November 19, AFTER November 18,
1996, enter on line 3...
1996, enter on line 3...
300
360
260
310
240
260
170
210
120
160

Table 2 for Line 3 Above
IF the combined ages at
annuity starting date were...
110 or under
111–120
121–130
131–140
141 or older

Publication 575 (2025)

THEN enter
on line 3...
410
360
310
260
210

43

Recapture Allocation Chart
Tax year
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025

Keep for Your Records

Taxable

Nontaxable (basis)

Form 8606, line 23 . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16b;* Form
1040A, line 12b;* or Form
1040NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16b;* Form
1040A, line 12b;* or Form
1040NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16b;* Form
1040A, line 12b;* or Form
1040NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16b;* Form
1040A, line 12b;* or Form
1040NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16b;* Form
1040A, line 12b;* or Form
1040NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16b;* Form
1040A, line 12b;* or Form
1040NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16b;* Form
1040A, line 12b;* or Form
1040NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 4b;* or Form
1040NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 4d;* or Form
1040-NR, line 17b* . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5b* . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5b* . . . . . . . . .

Form 8606, line 22 . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16a;** Form
1040A, line 12a;** or Form
1040NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16a;** Form
1040A, line 12a;** or Form
1040NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16a;** Form
1040A, line 12a;** or Form
1040NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16a;** Form
1040A, line 12a;** or Form
1040NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16a;** Form
1040A, line 12a;** or Form
1040NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16a;** Form
1040A, line 12a;** or Form
1040NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 16a;** Form
1040A, line 12a;** or Form
1040NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 4a;** or Form
1040NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, line 4c;** or Form
1040-NR, line 17a** . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5a** . . . . . . . . . . .
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 5a** . . . . . . . . . . .

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note: The sum of the totals for each column should equal the amount reported in box 10 of your 2025 Form 1099-R.
* Only include those amounts attributable to an in-plan Roth rollover.
** Only include any contributions (usually box 5 of Form 1099-R) that were taxable to you when made and attributable to an in-plan
Roth rollover.

44

Publication 575 (2025)

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

10% tax for early withdrawal 22
403(b) plans:
Defined 4
Loans from, without tax
consequences 18
Simplified Method to be used 13
5% owners 32

A
Alimony (See Qualified domestic relations
orders (QDROs))
Amending your return 38
Annuities
5% rate on early distributions 26
Defined 4
Fixed-period 4, 13
Guaranteed payments 34
Joint and survivor annuities 4
Minimum distributions from 33
Payments under 5
Qualified plan annuity starting before
November 19, 1996 12
Rollovers 23
Single-life 4, 13
Starting date of 11, 13, 16
Before November 19, 1996 14
Distribution on or after 16
Transfers of contracts 19
Types of 4
Variable annuities 4, 5
Assistance (See Tax help)

B
Beneficiaries 34

C
Cash withdrawals (See Nonperiodic
payments)
Certain firefighters:
Distributions to 29
Child support (See Qualified domestic
relations orders (QDROs))
Corrective distributions of excess plan
contributions 14
Costs:
Investment in the contract 10
Lump-sum distribution, determination
for 20

D
Death benefits 5
Death of employee 33, 34
Death of retiree 34
Deductible voluntary employee
contributions 12
Defined contribution plans 17
Designated Roth accounts:
Costs 11
Defined 4
Qualified distributions 11
Rollovers 24
Disability pensions 4, 6
Disabled 27

Publication 575 (2025)

Disaster-related relief 34
Distributions
Beginning date for 32
Early distributions and penalty tax 22,
26
Employer securities 16
Loans treated as 18
Lump-sum 16, 20
Minimum required 30
Nonperiodic, taxation of 14
Periodic, taxation of 11
Qualified public safety employees 28
Qualified reservist 29
U.S. savings bonds 18
Dividends 14

E
Early Distributions Repayments
Worksheet 31
Early withdrawal from deferred interest
account:
Penalty tax on 22, 26
Eligible retirement plan 38
Employer securities, distributions
of 16
Estate tax:
Deduction 34
Estimated tax 10
Excess accumulation, tax on 30
Excess plan contributions, corrective
distributions of 14

F
Figuring taxable amount 16-18
Fixed-period annuities 4, 13
Foreign employment contributions 11
Form:
W-4P 9
Form 1040:
Rollovers 24
Form 1099-INT:
U.S. savings bonds distributions 18
Form 1099-R:
Corrected form 2
Corrective distributions of excess plan
contributions 16
Exceptions to tax 27
Investment in the contract 11
Loan treated as distribution from
plan 19
Rollovers 24
Tax-free exchanges 20
Form 5329:
Recapture tax 30
Special additional taxes (penalty
taxes) 26, 27
Form RRB-1099-R 7
Form W-4P:
Withholding from retirement plan
payments 9, 10
Form W-4V:
Voluntary withholding request for social
security or railroad retirement
benefits 10

Frozen deposits 23
Fully taxable payments 12

G
General Rule 12, 14
Death of retiree under 34
Investment in the contract,
determination of 10
Guaranteed payments 13

H
Home purchase:
Loans from qualified plans for 18

I
In-plan Roth rollovers 24
Individual retirement accounts:
Minimum distributions from 33
Rollovers 21
Interest deduction:
Denial on loan from plan 19

J
Joint and survivor annuities 4

L
Loans treated as distributions 18
Local government employees:
Section 457 plans 5
Losses:
Lump-sum distribution 21
Lump-sum distributions 16, 20

M
Mandatory 60-day postponement 38
Military and government disability
pensions:
Service-connected disability 6
Minimum required distributions 30
Missing children, photographs of 2
Multiple annuitants 14
Multiple-lives annuities 13

N
Net Investment Income Tax 5, 18
Net unrealized appreciation (NUA) 21
Deferring tax on 16
Nonperiodic payments:
Loan treated as 18
Taxation of 14
Nonqualified plans:
Distribution before annuity start date 17
General Rule to be used 14
Loans treated as distributions from 19
Nonresident aliens:
Railroad retirement 7

P
Partial rollovers 22
Partly taxable payments 12
Penalty taxes:
Early distributions 26

45

Excess accumulation 32
Pensions:
Defined 4
Disability pensions 4, 6
Types of 4
Periodic payments:
Taxation of 11
Withholding tax 10
Plan loan offset 23
Public safety officers insurance
premiums 6
Public school employees:
Tax-sheltered annuity plans for
(See 403(b) plans)
Publications (See Tax help)

Q
Qualified disaster recovery
distributions 35
Qualified domestic relations orders
(QDROs) 4, 24
Qualified employee annuities:
Defined 4
Simplified Method to be used 13
Qualified employee plans:
Defined 4
Simplified Method to be used 13
Qualified plans 14
(See also specific type of plan)
Distribution before annuity starting
date 17
General Rule 14
Loans from, without tax
consequences 18
Rollovers 21
Qualified public safety employees 28
Distributions to 28, 29

R
Railroad retirement benefits 6-9
Taxability of 10
Recapture tax:
Changes in distribution method 30
Recontribution of Qualified
Distributions:
Purchase or Construction of a Main
Home 37

46

Related employers and related
plans 19
Repayment of loan within 5 years 18
Required beginning date 32
Required distributions, minimum 30
Retirement bonds 23
Rollovers 21-25
20% tax rate on distribution 10
Comparison of direct payment vs. direct
rollover (Table 1) 25
Direct rollover to another qualified
plan 10, 22
In-plan Roth 24
Nonspouse beneficiary 24
Nontaxable amounts 22
Notice to recipients of eligible rollover
distribution 24
Property and cash distributed 23
Roth IRAs 25
Substitution of other property 23
Surviving spouse making 24

S
Section 457 deferred compensation
plans 5
Securities of employer, distributions
of 16
Self-employed persons’ rollovers 21
Separation from service 28
Service-connected disability 6
Simplified Method 12, 13
Death of retiree under 34
How to use 13
Investment in the contract,
determination of 10
Not allowed 13
Single-sum payment in connection with
start of payments 17
Single-life annuities 4, 13
Social security, tax on 10
State employees:
Section 457 plans 5
State insurer delinquency
proceedings 32
Substantially equal periodic
payments 30

Surviving spouse:
Distribution rules for 33
Rollovers by 24

T
Tables:
Comparison of direct payment vs. direct
rollover (Table 1) 25
Tax help 38
Tax-free exchanges 19
Ten percent tax for early withdrawal 26
Terminally ill individuals:
Distributions to 27
Time for making rollover 22
Transfers of annuity contracts 19

U
U.S. savings bonds:
Distribution of 18

V
Variable annuities 4, 5
Voluntary employee contributions 12

W
Withdrawals 5
Employees withdrawing
contributions 17
Withholding 9
10% rate used 10
20% of eligible rollover 22, 25
Periodic payments 10
Railroad retirement 7
Worksheets:
Simplified Method 13
Worksheet A, illustrated 15
Worksheet A, Simplified Method 43

Publication 575 (2025)

