Skip Navigation 















An official website of the United States government 

Here’s how you know








U.S. Department of the Treasury 















Official websites use .gov

A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.











Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.























Menu 






Log In 




















-



- 
Savings Bonds 



About U.S. Savings Bonds 
Buy a Bond 
Gift a Savings Bond 
Cash In a Bond 
Savings Bond Value Calculator 
Manage Bonds 
Forms for Savings Bonds 
Treasury Hunt 








- 
Treasury Marketable Securities 



About Treasury Marketable Securities 
Treasury Bills 
Treasury Bonds 
Treasury Notes 
TIPS 
Floating Rate Notes (FRNs) 
STRIPS 
Forms for Treasury Marketable Securities 
Treasury Hunt 








- 
Auctions 



About Auctions 
How Auctions Work (Participating) 
When Auctions Happen (Schedules) 
Reopenings 
Announcements, Data & Results 
Buyback Announcements and Results 
Upcoming Auctions 
Recent Auction Results 
Auction Search (Query) 
Auction Press Releases 
Auction Regulations (UOC) 








- 
Laws and Regulations 



About Laws and Regulations 
Auction Regulations (UOC) 
Collateral Programs 
Commercial Book-Entry Regulations (TRADES) 
Frauds, Phonies, & Scams 
Government Securities Act (GSA) Regulations 
Large Position Reporting (LPR) 
Redemption (Buyback) Operations Regulations 
Treasury Marketable Securities Regulations 
Savings Bond Regulations 
TreasuryDirect Regulations 








- Research Center



- 
Government Users 



For Government Users 
Federal Investments Program 
SLGS & SLGSafe 
Security Liquidation & Proceeds 
Federal Borrowings Program 
Treasury Managed Accounts 
Funds Management Program Reports 
History of the Debt 
Public Debt Reports 
Interest Rates and Prices 










- Mailing Lists


- News


- About


- Forms


- Help Center


- Contact Us






























- Treasury Marketable Securities



- STRIPS








Separate Trading of Registered Interest and Principal of Securities ( STRIPS )


You can buy, hold, sell, and redeem STRIPS only through a financial institution, a broker, or dealer who handles government securities.

Treasury securities with a fixed-principal, such as notes, bonds, and TIPS are eligible and may be stripped. Bills and FRNs can’t be stripped.

The idea of STRIPS is that the principal and each interest payment become separate securities that are treated individually.

Each separated piece is a zero-coupon security that matures separately and, has only one payment.


An example


A bond with 10 years remaining to maturity consists of:



- a single principal payment due at maturity, and


- twenty interest payments, one every six months over the next 10 years


When this bond is stripped, the principal payment and each of the 20 interest payments becomes a separate security. The one original security is now 21 separate new securities with unique Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures (CUSIPs). All new security pieces pay at maturity.


STRIPS par value must be in multiples of $100


The minimum face amount needed to STRIP is $100, and any par amount above that minimum must be a multiple of $100.


A stripped security may also be reassembled


A stripped security may be reassembled into a single security if the financial institution, broker, or dealer gets all the remaining separate pieces of the original security.


The example again


Five years later, the stripped bond now has five years remaining to maturity. It consists of:



- the single principal payment due at maturity, and


- ten interest payments, one every six months over the next five years


There are 11 STRIPS with unique CUSIPs left for the bond.

To reassemble the bond, the financial institution, broker, or dealer must have all 11 STRIPS.

When the bond is reassembled, it will again have a single CUSIP number.


Stripping and reassembling are done in the commercial book-entry system


Financial Institutions, brokers, and dealers use the commercial book-entry system to hold Treasury marketable securities on behalf of investors. Because you can’t strip or reassemble in TreasuryDirect or Legacy Treasury Direct, all STRIPS are held in the commercial book-entry system and stay there when reassembled.


Each STRIPS is subject to taxes in the same way as the entire security


Interest earned on STRIPS and inflation adjustments on TIPS principal must be reported in the year in which they are earned.

The financial institution, broker, or dealer who holds your STRIPS will send you an IRS Form 1099 each year with your tax-related information.


For more information


If you have questions about STRIPS, contact your financial institution, broker, dealer, or investment advisor.

For the regulations relating to stripping and reassembling Treasury securities, see 31 CFR 356.31 .

If you are a financial institution, broker, or dealer and have specific questions on the process for stripping or reassembling Treasury securities, call the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at 201-531-3894.

For further information on the tax treatment of STRIPS, see IRS Publication 550, Investment Income and Expenses .


For government agencies: How to record STRIPS


For the principal payment: The stripped principal component of a security will be recorded at book value. Book value is the par value of a security minus the amount of any unamortized discounts or plus the amount of any unamortized premiums.

For the interest payments (TINT): The stripped interest component (TINT) of a security represents future interest payments due and will be recorded as accrued interest six months before maturity.























We're Here to Help

We welcome your questions and comments.


Write Us

If you write to us and want a response, please put your address in your letter (not just on the envelope).









Department of the Treasury

Bureau of the Fiscal Service

Attention: Auctions

3201 Pennsy Drive, Building E

Landover, MD 20785













Call Us

For general inquiries, please call us at 844-284-2676 (toll free)


E-mail Us





























































Connect With Us



- X (formerly Twitter)


- Facebook


- YouTube


- RSS Feeds






Legal Information



- Freedom of Information Act


- Privacy


- Terms & Conditions


- Data Quality


- For Web Developers


- Accessibility






Related Sites



- treasury.gov


- fiscaldata.treasury.gov


- USAspending.gov


- Bureau of the Fiscal Service


- USA.gov


- Data.gov


- Regulations.gov