Skip Navigation 















An official website of the United States government 

Here’s how you know








U.S. Department of the Treasury 















Official websites use .gov

A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.











Secure .gov websites use HTTPS

A lock ( ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.























Menu 






Log In 




















-



- 
Savings Bonds 



About U.S. Savings Bonds 
Buy a Bond 
Gift a Savings Bond 
Cash In a Bond 
Savings Bond Value Calculator 
Manage Bonds 
Forms for Savings Bonds 
Treasury Hunt 








- 
Treasury Marketable Securities 



About Treasury Marketable Securities 
Treasury Bills 
Treasury Bonds 
Treasury Notes 
TIPS 
Floating Rate Notes (FRNs) 
STRIPS 
Forms for Treasury Marketable Securities 
Treasury Hunt 








- 
Auctions 



About Auctions 
How Auctions Work (Participating) 
When Auctions Happen (Schedules) 
Reopenings 
Announcements, Data & Results 
Buyback Announcements and Results 
Upcoming Auctions 
Recent Auction Results 
Auction Search (Query) 
Auction Press Releases 
Auction Regulations (UOC) 








- 
Laws and Regulations 



About Laws and Regulations 
Auction Regulations (UOC) 
Collateral Programs 
Commercial Book-Entry Regulations (TRADES) 
Frauds, Phonies, & Scams 
Government Securities Act (GSA) Regulations 
Large Position Reporting (LPR) 
Redemption (Buyback) Operations Regulations 
Treasury Marketable Securities Regulations 
Savings Bond Regulations 
TreasuryDirect Regulations 








- Research Center



- 
Government Users 



For Government Users 
Federal Investments Program 
SLGS & SLGSafe 
Security Liquidation & Proceeds 
Federal Borrowings Program 
Treasury Managed Accounts 
Funds Management Program Reports 
History of the Debt 
Public Debt Reports 
Interest Rates and Prices 










- Mailing Lists


- News


- About


- Forms


- Help Center


- Contact Us






























- Auctions



- How Auctions Work









How Auctions Work


Auctions happen in four steps:



- We announce the auction


- We hold the auction


- You bid for the amount you want


- We issue the securities



We announce the auction

Each announcement includes this information:



- What security we are auctioning


- The amount we are offering


- Auction date


- Issue date


- Maturity date


- Terms and conditions of the offering


- Closing times for non-competitive and competitive bidding


- Other relevant information


To know when an auction will take place, you can:



- Sign up to get auction announcements


- See a list of upcoming auction announcements

(Updated every Friday by 10:45 AM, Eastern U.S. time)


- Look in newspapers that include our announcements


- Check our page When auctions happen (schedules)


Four times a year, the Department of the Treasury holds a press conference to discusses Treasury marketable security auctions. This usually happens on the first Wednesday in February, May, August, and November. At each of these press conferences, Treasury usually gives the tentative auction schedule for the next six months.

See the current tentative six-month auction schedule (PDF).

During a press conference, Treasury may also announce other decisions relating to the auction schedule or Treasury marketable securities in general. The Treasury Department's website has information on the quarterly press conferences .
































Financial Institutions:

Participate in auctions with the Debt Financing System.

An application for the exclusive use of institutions that provides direct access to U.S. Treasury auctions.














Read More 




























































We hold the auction

At the auction, Treasury first accepts all the non-competitive bids that comply with the auction rules.

Then, we accept competitive bids based on their rate, yield, or discount margin (from lowest to highest) until the entire amount of the offering has been awarded.

All successful bidders get the same rate, yield, or discount margin as the highest accepted bid.

If you bid through your TreasuryDirect account, you can see the results of your bid after 5 PM Eastern time on auction day. In your TreasuryDirect account, select Current Holdings, Pending Purchases and Reinvestments, select the pending security you wish to view, and then Submit. The price you see is for each $100 of your bid.

For a more general view of the auction results, you can:



- Sign up to get results by email


- See the auction results on this website


- Look in newspapers that include our auction results


Check to see if your new securities will accrue interest before we issue them. That may affect how much money you must have in your account before the issue date.























You bid for the amount you want

Who may bid?

All auctions are open to the public.

Institutional investors may have an account that lets them bid directly, saving the cost and effort of an intermediary.

Other investors may bid either through a TreasuryDirect account or through a bank, broker, or dealer. (Exception: Bids for Cash Management Bills must be through a bank, broker, or dealer.)

Individuals as well as several types of entities (such as corporations, estates, partnerships, and trusts) may have a TreasuryDirect account.

About entity accounts

Open a TreasuryDirect account

Log in to your TreasuryDirect account

Banks, brokers, and dealers work through the Commercial Book-Entry System.

See more about TreasuryDirect and the commercial book-entry system

For more details about who may bid, check our Who may bid? Questions and Answers .


How do I bid?

Bids can be non-competitive or competitive.




















Non-competitive Bidding

Maximum: $10 million per auction. You agree to accept the rate, yield, or discount margin determined at the auction. If you are using your TreasuryDirect account, you must bid non-competitively.





























Competitive Bidding

Maximum: 35% of the offering amount. You specify the rate, yield, or discount margin that you will accept. To bid competitively, you must use a bank, broker, or dealer.

























For more on how to bid, see Buying a Treasury marketable security

Also see Understanding pricing and interest rates

Always pay attention to the closing times for bids.


















We issue the securities

The auction date and the issue date are often a few days or even a few weeks apart.

On the issue date that was in the auction announcement, you get your awarded securities this way:





If you bid through 
This is what happens with your new securities 





your TreasuryDirect account 
the securities go into your account 



a bank, broker, or dealer 
the bank, broker, or dealer gets the securities for you 







When we issue the securities, we take the money to pay for them from the account you have designated for this purpose.

You then own the securities. You may keep them until they reach the end of their term (mature), or you may sell or transfer them before that time.

For more about each type of security, including when it matures, how it earns interest, and more, see the page about that type of security: Bills , Notes , Bonds , TIPS , and FRNs .




























































Connect With Us



- X (formerly Twitter)


- Facebook


- YouTube


- RSS Feeds






Legal Information



- Freedom of Information Act


- Privacy


- Terms & Conditions


- Data Quality


- For Web Developers


- Accessibility






Related Sites



- treasury.gov


- fiscaldata.treasury.gov


- USAspending.gov


- Bureau of the Fiscal Service


- USA.gov


- Data.gov


- Regulations.gov