What is gVisor? - gVisor
gVisor
Documentation
Blog
Users
Compatibility
Security
Community
GitHub
Project
What is gVisor?
Roadmap
Contributing
Security and Vulnerability Reporting
Community
Participation
gVisor Project Governance
Who's Using gVisor
Code of Conduct
Provisional style guide
User Guide
Installation
Production guide
Changing Platforms
Filesystem
FUSE
Networking
GPU Support
TPU Support
RDMA Support
Runtime Monitoring
Observability
Checkpoint/Restore
Debugging
FAQ
Systemd cgroup driver
Rootfs Tar Snapshots
Filesystem Snapshots
Rootless
Containerd
Containerd Quick Start
CRI-O Quick Start
Containerd Advanced Configuration
Personalities
Bubblewrap (bwrap) Personality
Quick Start
Docker Quick Start
Kubernetes Quick Start
OCI Quick Start
Tutorials
WordPress with Docker
Wordpress with Docker Compose
WordPress with Kubernetes
Configuring Falco with gVisor
Knative Services
Docker in gVisor
Docker in a GKE sandbox
Using CNI
SDK/API Reference
Go
API Reference
Quickstart
Python
API Reference
Quickstart
Architecture Guide
Introduction to gVisor security
Security Model
Resource Model
Platform Guide
Performance Guide
Networking Guide
Compatibility
Applications
Linux/arm64
Linux/amd64
What is gVisor?
Edit this page
Create issue
gVisor provides a strong layer of isolation between running applications and
the host operating system. It is an application kernel that implements a
Linux-like interface. Unlike Linux, it is written in a memory-safe
language (Go) and runs in userspace.
gVisor includes an Open Container Initiative (OCI) runtime called runsc
that makes it easy to work with existing container tooling. The runsc runtime
integrates with Docker and Kubernetes, making it simple to run sandboxed
containers.
gVisor can be used with Docker, Kubernetes, or directly using runsc. Use the
links below to see detailed instructions for each of them:
Docker: The quickest and easiest way
to get started.
Kubernetes: Isolate Pods in your
K8s cluster with gVisor.
OCI Quick Start: Expert mode. Customize
gVisor for your environment.
What does gVisor do?
gVisor provides a virtualized environment in order to sandbox containers. The
system interfaces normally implemented by the host kernel are moved into a
distinct, per-sandbox application kernel in order to minimize the risk of a
container escape exploit. gVisor does not introduce large fixed overheads
however, and still retains a process-like model with respect to resource
utilization.
How is this different?
Two other approaches are commonly taken to provide stronger isolation than
native containers.
gVisor is not a syscall filter (e.g. seccomp-bpf), nor a wrapper over
Linux isolation primitives (e.g. firejail, AppArmor, etc.).
gVisor is also not a VM in the everyday sense of the term (e.g.
VirtualBox, QEMU).
gVisor takes a distinct third approach, providing many security benefits of
VMs while maintaining the lower resource footprint, fast startup, and
flexibility of regular userspace applications.
Let’s take a closer look.
Machine-level virtualization, such as KVM and Xen, exposes
virtualized hardware to a guest kernel via a Virtual Machine Monitor (VMM). This
virtualized hardware is generally enlightened (paravirtualized) and additional
mechanisms can be used to improve the visibility between the guest and host
(e.g. balloon drivers, paravirtualized spinlocks). Running containers in
distinct virtual machines can provide great isolation, compatibility and
performance (though nested virtualization may bring challenges in this area),
but for containers it often requires additional proxies and agents, and may
require a larger resource footprint and slower start-up times.
Rule-based execution, such as seccomp, SELinux and
AppArmor, allows the specification of a fine-grained security policy
for an application or container. These schemes typically rely on hooks
implemented inside the host kernel to enforce the rules. If the surface can be
made small enough, then this is an excellent way to sandbox applications and
maintain native performance. However, in practice it can be extremely difficult
(if not impossible) to reliably define a policy for arbitrary, previously
unknown applications, making this approach challenging to apply universally.
Rule-based execution is often combined with additional layers for
defense-in-depth.
gVisor provides a third isolation mechanism, distinct from those above.
gVisor intercepts application system calls and acts as the guest kernel, without
the need for translation through virtualized hardware. gVisor may be thought of
as either a merged guest kernel and VMM, or as seccomp on steroids. This
architecture allows it to provide a flexible resource footprint (i.e. one based
on threads and memory mappings, not fixed guest physical resources) while also
lowering the fixed costs of virtualization. However, this comes at the price of
reduced application compatibility and higher per-system call overhead.
On top of this, gVisor employs rule-based execution to provide defense-in-depth
(details below).
gVisor’s approach is similar to User Mode Linux (UML), although UML
virtualizes hardware internally and thus provides a fixed resource footprint.
Each of the above approaches may excel in distinct scenarios. For example,
machine-level virtualization will face challenges achieving high density, while
gVisor may provide poor performance for system call heavy workloads.
Why Go?
gVisor is written in Go in order to avoid security pitfalls that can
plague kernels. With Go, there are strong types, built-in bounds checks, no
uninitialized variables, no use-after-free, no stack overflow, and a built-in
race detector. However, the use of Go has its challenges, and the runtime often
introduces performance overhead.
What are the different components?
A gVisor sandbox consists of multiple processes. These processes collectively
comprise an environment in which one or more containers can be run.
Each sandbox has its own isolated instance of:
The Sentry, which is a kernel that runs the containers and intercepts
and responds to system calls made by the application.
Each container running in the sandbox has its own isolated instance of:
A Gofer which provides file system access to the containers.
What is runsc?
The entrypoint to running a sandboxed container is the runsc executable.
runsc implements the Open Container Initiative (OCI) runtime
specification, which is used by Docker and Kubernetes. This means that OCI
compatible filesystem bundles can be run by runsc. Filesystem bundles are
comprised of a config.json file containing container configuration, and a root
filesystem for the container. Please see the OCI runtime spec
for more information on filesystem bundles. runsc implements multiple commands
that perform various functions such as starting, stopping, listing, and querying
the status of containers.
Sentry
The Sentry is the largest component of gVisor. It can be thought of as a
application kernel. The Sentry implements all the kernel functionality needed by
the application, including: system calls, signal delivery, memory management and
page faulting logic, the threading model, and more.
When the application makes a system call, the
Platform redirects the call to the Sentry,
which will do the necessary work to service it. It is important to note that the
Sentry does not pass system calls through to the host kernel. As a userspace
application, the Sentry will make some host system calls to support its
operation, but it does not allow the application to directly control the system
calls it makes. For example, the Sentry is not able to open files directly; file
system operations that extend beyond the sandbox (not internal /proc files,
pipes, etc) are sent to the Gofer, described below.
Gofer
The Gofer is a standard host process which is started with each container and
communicates with the Sentry via the 9P protocol over a socket or shared
memory channel. The Sentry process is started in a restricted seccomp container
without access to file system resources. The Gofer mediates all access to these
resources, providing an additional level of isolation.
Application
The application is a normal Linux binary provided to gVisor in an OCI runtime
bundle. gVisor aims to provide an environment equivalent to Linux, so
applications should be able to run unmodified. However, gVisor does not
presently implement every system call, /proc file, or /sys file so some
incompatibilities may occur. See Compatibility
for more information.
About
Roadmap
Contributing
Security
Security Track Record
Governance
Privacy Policy
Support
Issues
Documentation
Application Compatibility
FAQ
Connect
GitHub
User Mailing List
Developer Mailing List
Gitter Chat
Blog
© 2026 The gVisor Authors