Encrypting Confidential Data at Rest | Kubernetes
KubernetesDocumentation
Kubernetes Blog
Training
Careers
Partners
Community
VersionsRelease Information
v1.37
v1.36
v1.35
v1.34
v1.33
English中文 (Chinese)
বাংলা (Bengali)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
فارسی (Persian)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
Light
Dark
Auto
KubeCon + CloudNativeCon North America 2026
Join us for four days of incredible opportunities to collaborate, learn and share with the cloud native community.
Buy your ticket now! 9 - 12 November | Salt Lake City, Utah
Hide this notice
Encrypting Confidential Data at Rest
Englishবাংলা (Bengali)
中文 (Chinese)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
فارسی (Persian)
Kubernetes Documentation
Documentation
Available Documentation Versions
Getting started
Learning environment
Production environment
Container Runtimes
Installing Kubernetes with deployment tools
Bootstrapping clusters with kubeadm
Installing kubeadm
Troubleshooting kubeadm
Creating a cluster with kubeadm
Customizing components with the kubeadm API
Options for Highly Available Topology
Creating Highly Available Clusters with kubeadm
Set up a High Availability etcd Cluster with kubeadm
Configuring each kubelet in your cluster using kubeadm
Dual-stack support with kubeadm
Turnkey Cloud Solutions
Best practices
Considerations for large clusters
Running in multiple zones
Validate node setup
Enforcing Pod Security Standards
PKI certificates and requirements
Concepts
Overview
Kubernetes Components
Objects In Kubernetes
Kubernetes Object Management
Object Names and IDs
Labels and Selectors
Namespaces
Annotations
Field Selectors
Finalizers
Owners and Dependents
Recommended Labels
Storage Versions
The Kubernetes API
The kubectl command-line tool
Cluster Architecture
Nodes
Communication between Nodes and the Control Plane
Controllers
Leases
Cloud Controller Manager
About cgroup v2
Kubernetes Self-Healing
Garbage Collection
Mixed Version Proxy
Containers
Images
Container Environment
Runtime Class
Container Lifecycle Hooks
Container Runtime Interface (CRI)
Workloads
Pods
Pod Lifecycle
Pod Conditions
Init Containers
Sidecar Containers
Ephemeral Containers
Liveness, Readiness, and Startup Probes
Disruptions
Pod Hostname
Pod Quality of Service Classes
Scheduling Group
Static Pods
User Namespaces
Downward API
Advanced Pod Configuration
Workload API
Pod Group Disruption and Priority
PodGroup Scheduling Policies
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Scheduling Building Block APIs and the workloadbuilder Library
Workload Management
Deployments
ReplicaSet
StatefulSets
DaemonSet
Jobs
Automatic Cleanup for Finished Jobs
CronJob
ReplicationController
CompositePodGroup API
CompositePodGroup Lifecycle
PodGroup API
PodGroup Lifecycle
Managing Workloads
Autoscaling Workloads
Horizontal Pod Autoscaling
Vertical Pod Autoscaling
Services, Load Balancing, and Networking
Service
Ingress
Ingress Controllers
Gateway API
EndpointSlices
Network Policies
DNS for Services and Pods
IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Topology Aware Routing
Networking on Windows
Service ClusterIP allocation
Service Internal Traffic Policy
Storage
Volumes
Persistent Volumes
Projected Volumes
Ephemeral Volumes
Storage Classes
Volume Attributes Classes
Dynamic Volume Provisioning
Volume Snapshots
Volume Snapshot Classes
CSI Volume Cloning
Volume Populators and Data Sources
Storage Capacity
Node-specific Volume Limits
Local ephemeral storage
Volume Health Monitoring
Windows Storage
Configuration
ConfigMaps
Secrets
Resource Management for Pods and Containers
Organizing Cluster Access Using kubeconfig Files
Resource Management for Windows nodes
Security
Cloud Native Security
Pod Security Standards
Pod Security Admission
Service Accounts
Pod Security Policies
Security For Linux Nodes
Security For Windows Nodes
Controlling Access to the Kubernetes API
Role Based Access Control Good Practices
Good practices for Kubernetes Secrets
Multi-tenancy
Hardening Guide - Authentication Mechanisms
Hardening Guide - Dynamic Resource Allocation
Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration
Kubernetes API Server Bypass Risks
Linux kernel security constraints for Pods and containers
Security Checklist
Application Security Checklist
Policies
Limit Ranges
Resource Quotas
Process ID Limits And Reservations
Scheduling, Preemption and Eviction
Kubernetes Scheduler
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Assigning Pods to Nodes
Pod Overhead
Pod Scheduling Readiness
Pod Topology Spread Constraints
Taints and Tolerations
Scheduling Framework
Gang Scheduling
Scheduler Performance Tuning
PodGroup Scheduling
Resource Bin Packing
Workload-Aware Preemption
Pod Priority and Preemption
Node-pressure Eviction
API-initiated Eviction
Node Declared Features
Resource Management
Resource managers
Dynamic Resource Allocation
DRA API Objects
How DRA Works
Observability of Dynamic Resources
DRA Features
Device Taints and Tolerations
Pod-level resource managers
Cluster Administration
Node Shutdowns
Swap memory management
Node Autoscaling
Certificates
Cluster Networking
Observability
Admission Webhook Good Practices
Good practices for Dynamic Resource Allocation as a Cluster Admin
Logging Architecture
Compatibility Version For Kubernetes Control Plane Components
Metrics For Kubernetes System Components
Metrics for Kubernetes Object States
System Logs
Traces For Kubernetes System Components
Proxies in Kubernetes
API Priority and Fairness
Installing Addons
Coordinated Leader Election
Windows in Kubernetes
Windows containers in Kubernetes
Guide for Running Windows Containers in Kubernetes
Extending Kubernetes
Compute, Storage, and Networking Extensions
Network Plugins
Device Plugins
Extending the Kubernetes API
Custom Resources
Kubernetes API Aggregation Layer
Operator pattern
Tasks
Install Tools
Install and Set Up kubectl on Linux
Install and Set Up kubectl on macOS
Install and Set Up kubectl on Windows
Administer a Cluster
Administration with kubeadm
Adding Linux worker nodes
Adding Windows worker nodes
Upgrading kubeadm clusters
Upgrading Linux nodes
Upgrading Windows nodes
Certificate Management with kubeadm
Reconfiguring a kubeadm cluster
Changing The Kubernetes Package Repository
Overprovision Node Capacity For A Cluster
Migrating from dockershim
Changing the Container Runtime on a Node from Docker Engine to containerd
Find Out What Container Runtime is Used on a Node
Troubleshooting CNI plugin-related errors
Check whether dockershim removal affects you
Migrating telemetry and security agents from dockershim
Generate Certificates Manually
Manage Memory, CPU, and API Resources
Configure Default Memory Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Default CPU Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum Memory Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum CPU Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Memory and CPU Quotas for a Namespace
Configure a Pod Quota for a Namespace
Install a Network Policy Provider
Use Antrea for NetworkPolicy
Use Calico for NetworkPolicy
Use Cilium for NetworkPolicy
Use Kube-router for NetworkPolicy
Access Clusters Using the Kubernetes API
Enable Or Disable Feature Gates
Advertise Extended Resources for a Node
Autoscale the DNS Service in a Cluster
Change the Access Mode of a PersistentVolume to ReadWriteOncePod
Change the default StorageClass
Switching from Polling to CRI Event-based Updates to Container Status
Change the Reclaim Policy of a PersistentVolume
Cloud Controller Manager Administration
Configure a kubelet image credential provider
Configure Quotas for API Objects
Control CPU Management Policies on the Node
Control Memory Management Policies on a Node
Control Topology Management Policies on a node
Customizing DNS Service
Debugging DNS Resolution
Declare Network Policy
Developing Cloud Controller Manager
Enable Or Disable A Kubernetes API
Encrypting Confidential Data at Rest
Decrypt Confidential Data that is Already Encrypted at Rest
Guaranteed Scheduling For Critical Add-On Pods
IP Masquerade Agent User Guide
Limit Storage Consumption
Migrate Replicated Control Plane To Use Cloud Controller Manager
Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes
Reserve Compute Resources for System Daemons
Running Kubernetes Node Components as a Non-root User
Safely Drain a Node
Securing a Cluster
Harden Dynamic Resource Allocation in Your Cluster
Set Kubelet Parameters Via A Configuration File
Share a Cluster with Namespaces
Upgrade A Cluster
Use Cascading Deletion in a Cluster
Using a KMS provider for data encryption
Using CoreDNS for Service Discovery
Using NodeLocal DNSCache in Kubernetes Clusters
Using sysctls in a Kubernetes Cluster
Verify Signed Kubernetes Artifacts
Configure Pods and Containers
Assign Memory Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign CPU Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign Devices to Pods and Containers
Set Up DRA in a Cluster
Allocate Devices to Workloads with DRA
Access DRA Device Metadata
Assign Pod-level CPU and memory resources
Configure GMSA for Windows Pods and containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Pods
Configure RunAsUserName for Windows pods and containers
Create a Windows HostProcess Pod
Configure Quality of Service for Pods
Assign Extended Resources to a Container
Configure a Pod to Use a Volume for Storage
Configure a Pod to Use a Projected Volume for Storage
Configure a Security Context for a Pod or Container
Configure Service Accounts for Pods
Pull an Image from a Private Registry
Configure Liveness, Readiness and Startup Probes
Assign Pods to Nodes
Assign Pods to Nodes using Node Affinity
Configure Pod Initialization
Attach Handlers to Container Lifecycle Events
Configure a Pod to Use a ConfigMap
Share Process Namespace between Containers in a Pod
Use a User Namespace With a Pod
Use an Image Volume With a Pod
Set Permissions on an emptyDir Volume
Set Bind Mount Options on Volume Mounts
Create static Pods
Translate a Docker Compose File to Kubernetes Resources
Enforce Pod Security Standards by Configuring the Built-in Admission Controller
Enforce Pod Security Standards with Namespace Labels
Migrate from PodSecurityPolicy to the Built-In PodSecurity Admission Controller
Monitoring, Logging, and Debugging
Logging in Kubernetes
Monitoring in Kubernetes
Troubleshooting Applications
Debug Pods
Debug Services
Debug a StatefulSet
Determine the Reason for Pod Failure
Debug Init Containers
Debug Running Pods
Get a Shell to a Running Container
Troubleshooting Clusters
Troubleshooting kubectl
Resource metrics pipeline
Tools for Monitoring Resources
Monitor Node Health
Debugging Kubernetes nodes with crictl
Troubleshooting Topology Management
Auditing
Debugging Kubernetes Nodes With Kubectl
Developing and debugging services locally using telepresence
Windows debugging tips
Manage Kubernetes Objects
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Kustomize
Managing Kubernetes Objects Using Imperative Commands
Imperative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Update API Objects in Place Using kubectl patch
Migrate Kubernetes Objects Using Storage Version Migration
Managing Secrets
Managing Secrets using kubectl
Managing Secrets using Configuration File
Managing Secrets using Kustomize
Inject Data Into Applications
Define a Command and Arguments for a Container
Define Dependent Environment Variables
Define Environment Variables for a Container
Define Environment Variable Values Using An Init Container
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Environment Variables
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Files
Distribute Credentials Securely Using Secrets
Run Applications
Run a Stateless Application Using a Deployment
Horizontal Manual Scaling for a Deployment
Update a Deployment Without Downtime
Run a Single-Instance Stateful Application
Run a Replicated Stateful Application
Scale a StatefulSet
Delete a StatefulSet
Force Delete StatefulSet Pods
HorizontalPodAutoscaler Walkthrough
Specifying a Disruption Budget for your Application
Accessing the Kubernetes API from a Pod
Run Jobs
Running Automated Tasks with a CronJob
Coarse Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Fine Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Indexed Job for Parallel Processing with Static Work Assignment
Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication
Parallel Processing using Expansions
Handling retriable and non-retriable pod failures with Pod failure policy
Access Applications in a Cluster
Deploy and Access the Kubernetes Dashboard
Accessing Clusters
Configure Access to Multiple Clusters
Use Port Forwarding to Access Applications in a Cluster
Use a Service to Access an Application in a Cluster
Connect a Frontend to a Backend Using Services
Create an External Load Balancer
List All Container Images Running in a Cluster
Communicate Between Containers in the Same Pod Using a Shared Volume
Configure DNS for a Cluster
Access Services Running on Clusters
Extend Kubernetes
Configure the Aggregation Layer
Use Custom Resources
Extend the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions
Versions in CustomResourceDefinitions
Set up an Extension API Server
Configure Multiple Schedulers
Use an HTTP Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Use a SOCKS5 Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Set up Konnectivity service
TLS
Issue a Certificate for a Kubernetes API Client Using a CertificateSigningRequest
Configure Certificate Rotation for the Kubelet
Manage TLS Certificates in a Cluster
Manual Rotation of CA Certificates
Manage Cluster Daemons
Building a Basic DaemonSet
Perform a Rolling Update on a DaemonSet
Perform a Rollback on a DaemonSet
Running Pods on Only Some Nodes
Networking
Adding entries to Pod /etc/hosts with HostAliases
Extend Service IP Ranges
Kubernetes Default ServiceCIDR Reconfiguration
Validate IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Extend kubectl with plugins
Manage HugePages
Schedule GPUs
Tutorials
Hello Minikube
Learn Kubernetes Basics
Create a Cluster
Using Minikube to Create a Cluster
Deploy an App
Using kubectl to Create a Deployment
Explore Your App
Viewing Pods and Nodes
Expose Your App Publicly
Using a Service to Expose Your App
Scale Your App
Running Multiple Instances of Your App
Update Your App
Performing a Rolling Update
Configuration
Updating Configuration via a ConfigMap
Configuring Redis using a ConfigMap
Adopting Sidecar Containers
Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage
Security
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Cluster Level
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Namespace Level
Restrict a Container's Access to Resources with AppArmor
Restrict a Container's Syscalls with seccomp
Stateless Applications
Deploy a Release Using a Canary Deployment
Exposing an External IP Address to Access an Application in a Cluster
Example: Deploying PHP Guestbook application with Redis
Stateful Applications
StatefulSet Basics
Example: Deploying WordPress and MySQL with Persistent Volumes
Example: Deploying Cassandra with a StatefulSet
Running ZooKeeper, A Distributed System Coordinator
Cluster Management
Running Kubelet in Standalone Mode
Configuring swap memory on Kubernetes nodes
Use Pod-Level Resources with kubelet Resource Managers
Install Drivers and Allocate Devices with DRA
Explore Validating and Mutating Admission Policies
Namespaces Walkthrough
Services
Connecting Applications with Services
Using Source IP
Explore Termination Behavior for Pods And Their Endpoints
Reference
Glossary
API Overview
Declarative API Validation
Kubernetes API Concepts
Server-Side Apply
Client Libraries
Common Expression Language in Kubernetes
Deprecated API Migration Guide
Kubernetes API health endpoints
API Access Control
Authenticating
Authenticating with Bootstrap Tokens
Authorization
Using RBAC Authorization
Using Node Authorization
Webhook Mode
Using ABAC Authorization
Admission Control
Dynamic Admission Control
Managing Service Accounts
User Impersonation
Certificates and Certificate Signing Requests
Mapping PodSecurityPolicies to Pod Security Standards
Kubelet authentication/authorization
TLS bootstrapping
Manifest-Based Admission Control
Mutating Admission Policy
Validating Admission Policy
Kubernetes Deprecation Policy
Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints
Audit Annotations
Kubernetes API
API Groups
Admissionregistration
MutatingAdmissionPolicy
MutatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
MutatingWebhookConfiguration
ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
ValidatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
Apiextensions
CustomResourceDefinition
Apiregistration
APIService
Apiserverinternal
StorageVersion
Apps
ControllerRevision
DaemonSet
Deployment
ReplicaSet
StatefulSet
Autoscaling
HorizontalPodAutoscaler
Batch
CronJob
Job
Certificates
CertificateSigningRequest
ClusterTrustBundle
PodCertificateRequest
Coordination
Lease
LeaseCandidate
Discovery
EndpointSlice
Events
Event
Core
ComponentStatus
ConfigMap
Endpoints
Event
LimitRange
Namespace
Node
PersistentVolume
PersistentVolumeClaim
Pod
PodTemplate
ReplicationController
ResourceQuota
Secret
Service
ServiceAccount
Flowcontrol
FlowSchema
PriorityLevelConfiguration
Lifecycle
Eviction
EvictionRequest
Networking
IPAddress
Ingress
IngressClass
NetworkPolicy
ServiceCIDR
Node
RuntimeClass
Policy
PodDisruptionBudget
Rbac
ClusterRole
ClusterRoleBinding
Role
RoleBinding
Resource
DeviceClass
DeviceTaintRule
ResourceClaim
ResourceClaimTemplate
ResourcePoolStatusRequest
ResourceSlice
Scheduling
CompositePodGroup
PodGroup
PriorityClass
Workload
Storage
CSIDriver
CSINode
CSIStorageCapacity
StorageClass
VolumeAttachment
VolumeAttributesClass
Storagemigration
StorageVersionMigration
Instrumentation
Service Level Indicator Metrics
CRI Pod & Container Metrics
Native Histograms
Node metrics data
Understand Pressure Stall Information (PSI) Metrics
Kubernetes z-pages
Kubernetes Metrics Reference
Kubernetes Issues and Security
Kubernetes Issue Tracker
Kubernetes Security and Disclosure Information
CVE feed
Node Reference Information
Kubelet Checkpoint API
Linux Kernel Version Requirements
Standard Device Attributes for Dynamic Resource Allocation
Articles on dockershim Removal and on Using CRI-compatible Runtimes
Kubelet Pods API
Pod-level resource managers reference
Node Labels Populated By The Kubelet
Kubelet Sync Loop
Local Files And Paths Used By The Kubelet
Kubelet Configuration Directory Merging
Kubelet Device Manager API Versions
Kubelet Systemd Watchdog
Node Status
Seccomp and Kubernetes
What Happens After A Node Restart
Linux Node Swap Behaviors
Networking Reference
Protocols for Services
Ports and Protocols
Virtual IPs and Service Proxies
Setup tools
Kubeadm
kubeadm init
kubeadm join
kubeadm upgrade
kubeadm upgrade phases
kubeadm config
kubeadm reset
kubeadm token
kubeadm version
kubeadm alpha
kubeadm certs
kubeadm init phase
kubeadm join phase
kubeadm kubeconfig
kubeadm reset phase
Implementation details
Command line tool (kubectl)
Introduction to kubectl
kubectl Quick Reference
kubectl reference
kubectl
kubectl annotate
kubectl api-resources
kubectl api-versions
kubectl apply
kubectl apply edit-last-applied
kubectl apply set-last-applied
kubectl apply view-last-applied
kubectl attach
kubectl auth
kubectl auth can-i
kubectl auth reconcile
kubectl auth whoami
kubectl autoscale
kubectl certificate
kubectl certificate approve
kubectl certificate deny
kubectl cluster-info
kubectl cluster-info dump
kubectl completion
kubectl config
kubectl config current-context
kubectl config delete-cluster
kubectl config delete-context
kubectl config delete-user
kubectl config get-clusters
kubectl config get-contexts
kubectl config get-users
kubectl config rename-context
kubectl config set
kubectl config set-cluster
kubectl config set-context
kubectl config set-credentials
kubectl config unset
kubectl config use-context
kubectl config view
kubectl cordon
kubectl cp
kubectl create
kubectl create clusterrole
kubectl create clusterrolebinding
kubectl create configmap
kubectl create cronjob
kubectl create deployment
kubectl create ingress
kubectl create job
kubectl create namespace
kubectl create poddisruptionbudget
kubectl create priorityclass
kubectl create quota
kubectl create role
kubectl create rolebinding
kubectl create secret
kubectl create secret docker-registry
kubectl create secret generic
kubectl create secret tls
kubectl create service
kubectl create service clusterip
kubectl create service externalname
kubectl create service loadbalancer
kubectl create service nodeport
kubectl create serviceaccount
kubectl create token
kubectl debug
kubectl delete
kubectl describe
kubectl diff
kubectl drain
kubectl edit
kubectl events
kubectl exec
kubectl explain
kubectl expose
kubectl get
kubectl kuberc
kubectl kuberc set
kubectl kuberc view
kubectl kustomize
kubectl label
kubectl logs
kubectl options
kubectl patch
kubectl plugin
kubectl plugin list
kubectl port-forward
kubectl proxy
kubectl replace
kubectl rollout
kubectl rollout history
kubectl rollout pause
kubectl rollout restart
kubectl rollout resume
kubectl rollout status
kubectl rollout undo
kubectl run
kubectl scale
kubectl set
kubectl set env
kubectl set image
kubectl set resources
kubectl set selector
kubectl set serviceaccount
kubectl set subject
kubectl taint
kubectl top
kubectl top node
kubectl top pod
kubectl uncordon
kubectl version
kubectl wait
kubectl Commands
kubectl
JSONPath Support
kubectl for Docker Users
kubectl Usage Conventions
Kubectl user preferences (kuberc)
Encodings
KYAML Reference
Component tools
Feature Gates
Feature Gates (removed)
kube-apiserver
kube-controller-manager
kube-proxy
kube-scheduler
kubelet
Debug cluster
Flow control
Configuration APIs
Client Authentication (v1)
Client Authentication (v1beta1)
Event Rate Limit Configuration (v1alpha1)
Image Policy API (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Admission (v1)
kube-apiserver Audit Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1beta1)
kube-controller-manager Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-proxy Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-scheduler Configuration (v1)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta3)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta4)
kubeconfig (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1alpha1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1beta1)
Kubelet CredentialProvider (v1)
kuberc (v1alpha1)
kuberc (v1beta1)
WebhookAdmission Configuration (v1)
External APIs
Kubernetes Custom Metrics (v1beta2)
Kubernetes External Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubelet APIs
Kubelet Summary API (v1alpha1)
Scheduling
Scheduler Configuration
Scheduling Policies
Other Tools
Contribute
Contribute to Kubernetes Documentation
Contributing to Kubernetes blogs
Submitting articles to Kubernetes blogs
Blog guidelines
Blog article mirroring
Post-release communications
Helping as a blog writing buddy
Suggesting content improvements
Contributing new content
Opening a pull request
Previewing locally
Documenting for a release
Case studies
Reviewing changes
Reviewing pull requests
For approvers and reviewers
Localizing Kubernetes documentation
Participating in SIG Docs
Roles and responsibilities
Issue Wranglers
PR wranglers
Documentation style overview
Content guide
Style guide
Diagram guide
Writing a new topic
Page content types
Content organization
Custom Hugo Shortcodes
Updating Reference Documentation
Quickstart
Release generation
Contributing to the Upstream Kubernetes Code
Generating Reference Documentation for the Kubernetes API
Generating Reference Documentation for Configuration APIs
Generating Reference Documentation for kubectl Commands
Generating Reference Documentation for Metrics
Generating Reference Pages for Kubernetes Components and Tools
Advanced contributing
Viewing Site Analytics
Docs smoke test page
Edit this page
Create child page
Create an issue
Print entire section
Before you begin
Determine whether encryption at rest is already enabled
Understanding the encryption at rest configurationAvailable providers
Key storage
Protection for encryption keys
Encrypt your dataGenerate the encryption key
Replicate the encryption key
Write an encryption configuration file
Use the new encryption configuration file
Reconfigure other control plane hosts
Verify that newly written data is encrypted
Ensure all relevant data are encrypted
Prevent plain text retrieval
Rotate a decryption key
Decrypt all data
Configure automatic reloading
What's next
Kubernetes Documentation
Tasks
Administer a Cluster
Encrypting Confidential Data at Rest
Encrypting Confidential Data at Rest
All of the APIs in Kubernetes that let you write persistent API resource data support
at-rest encryption. For example, you can enable at-rest encryption for
Secrets.
This at-rest encryption is additional to any system-level encryption for the
etcd cluster or for the filesystem(s) on hosts where you are running the
kube-apiserver.
This page shows how to enable and configure encryption of API data at rest.
Note:
This task covers encryption for resource data stored using the
Kubernetes API. For example, you can
encrypt Secret objects, including the key-value data they contain.
If you want to encrypt data in filesystems that are mounted into containers, you instead need
to either:
use a storage integration that provides encrypted
volumes
encrypt the data within your own application
Before you begin
You need to have a Kubernetes cluster, and the kubectl command-line tool must
be configured to communicate with your cluster. It is recommended to run this tutorial on a cluster with at least two nodes that are not acting as control plane hosts. If you do not already have a
cluster, you can create one by using
minikube
or you can use one of these Kubernetes playgrounds:
iximiuz Labs
Killercoda
KodeKloud
This task assumes that you are running the Kubernetes API server as a
static pod on each control
plane node.
Your cluster's control plane must use etcd v3.x (major version 3, any minor version).
To encrypt a custom resource, your cluster must be running Kubernetes v1.26 or newer.
To use a wildcard to match resources, your cluster must be running Kubernetes v1.27 or newer.
To check the version, enter kubectl version.
Determine whether encryption at rest is already enabled
By default, the API server stores plain-text representations of resources into etcd, with
no at-rest encryption.
The kube-apiserver process accepts an argument --encryption-provider-config
that specifies a path to a configuration file. The contents of that file, if you specify one,
control how Kubernetes API data is encrypted in etcd.
If you are running the kube-apiserver without the --encryption-provider-config command line
argument, you do not have encryption at rest enabled. If you are running the kube-apiserver
with the --encryption-provider-config command line argument, and the file that it references
specifies the identity provider as the first encryption provider in the list, then you
do not have at-rest encryption enabled
(the default identity provider does not provide any confidentiality protection.)
If you are running the kube-apiserver
with the --encryption-provider-config command line argument, and the file that it references
specifies a provider other than identity as the first encryption provider in the list, then
you already have at-rest encryption enabled. However, that check does not tell you whether
a previous migration to encrypted storage has succeeded. If you are not sure, see
ensure all relevant data are encrypted.
Understanding the encryption at rest configuration
---
#
# CAUTION: this is an example configuration.
#          Do not use this for your own cluster!
#
apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
kind: EncryptionConfiguration
resources:
- resources:
- secrets
- configmaps
- pandas.awesome.bears.example # a custom resource API
providers:
# This configuration does not provide data confidentiality. The first
# configured provider is specifying the "identity" mechanism, which
# stores resources as plain text.
#
- identity: {} # plain text, in other words NO encryption
- aesgcm:
keys:
- name: key1
secret: c2VjcmV0IGlzIHNlY3VyZQ==
- name: key2
secret: dGhpcyBpcyBwYXNzd29yZA==
- aescbc:
keys:
- name: key1
secret: c2VjcmV0IGlzIHNlY3VyZQ==
- name: key2
secret: dGhpcyBpcyBwYXNzd29yZA==
- secretbox:
keys:
- name: key1
secret: YWJjZGVmZ2hpamtsbW5vcHFyc3R1dnd4eXoxMjM0NTY=
- resources:
- events
providers:
- identity: {} # do not encrypt Events even though *.* is specified below
- resources:
- '*.apps' # wildcard match requires Kubernetes 1.27 or later
providers:
- aescbc:
keys:
- name: key2
secret: c2VjcmV0IGlzIHNlY3VyZSwgb3IgaXMgaXQ/Cg==
- resources:
- '*.*' # wildcard match requires Kubernetes 1.27 or later
providers:
- aescbc:
keys:
- name: key3
secret: c2VjcmV0IGlzIHNlY3VyZSwgSSB0aGluaw==
Each resources array item is a separate config and contains a complete configuration. The
resources.resources field is an array of Kubernetes resource names (resource or resource.group)
that should be encrypted like Secrets, ConfigMaps, or other resources.
If custom resources are added to EncryptionConfiguration and the cluster version is 1.26 or newer,
any newly created custom resources mentioned in the EncryptionConfiguration will be encrypted.
Any custom resources that existed in etcd prior to that version and configuration will be unencrypted
until they are next written to storage. This is the same behavior as built-in resources.
See the Ensure all secrets are encrypted section.
The providers array is an ordered list of the possible encryption providers to use for the APIs that you listed.
Each provider supports multiple keys - the keys are tried in order for decryption, and if the provider
is the first provider, the first key is used for encryption.
Only one provider type may be specified per entry (identity or aescbc may be provided,
but not both in the same item).
The first provider in the list is used to encrypt resources written into the storage. When reading
resources from storage, each provider that matches the stored data attempts in order to decrypt the
data. If no provider can read the stored data due to a mismatch in format or secret key, an error
is returned which prevents clients from accessing that resource.
EncryptionConfiguration supports the use of wildcards to specify the resources that should be encrypted.
Use '*.<group>' to encrypt all resources within a group (for eg '*.apps' in above example) or '*.*'
to encrypt all resources. '*.' can be used to encrypt all resource in the core group. '*.*' will
encrypt all resources, even custom resources that are added after API server start.
Note:
Use of wildcards that overlap within the same resource list or across multiple entries are not allowed
since part of the configuration would be ineffective. The resources list's processing order and precedence
are determined by the order it's listed in the configuration.
If you have a wildcard covering resources and want to opt out of at-rest encryption for a particular kind
of resource, you achieve that by adding a separate resources array item with the name of the resource that
you want to exempt, followed by a providers array item where you specify the identity provider. You add
this item to the list so that it appears earlier than the configuration where you do specify encryption
(a provider that is not identity).
For example, if '*.*' is enabled and you want to opt out of encryption for Events and ConfigMaps, add a
new earlier item to the resources, followed by the providers array item with identity as the
provider. The more specific entry must come before the wildcard entry.
The new item would look similar to:
...
- resources:
- configmaps. # specifically from the core API group,
# because of trailing "."
- events
providers:
- identity: {}
# and then other entries in resources
Ensure that the exemption is listed before the wildcard '*.*' item in the resources array
to give it precedence.
For more detailed information about the EncryptionConfiguration struct, please refer to the
encryption configuration API.
Caution:
If any resource is not readable via the encryption configuration (because keys were changed),
and you cannot restore a working configuration, your only recourse is to delete that entry from
the underlying etcd directly.
Any calls to the Kubernetes API that attempt to read that resource will fail until it is deleted
or a valid decryption key is provided.
Available providers
Before you configure encryption-at-rest for data in your cluster's Kubernetes API, you
need to select which provider(s) you will use.
The following table describes each available provider.
Providers for Kubernetes encryption at restName
Encryption
Strength
Speed
Key length
identity
None
N/A
N/A
N/A
Resources written as-is without encryption. When set as the first provider, the resource will be decrypted as new values are written. Existing encrypted resources are not automatically overwritten with the plaintext data.
The identity provider is the default if you do not specify otherwise.
aescbc
AES-CBC with PKCS#7 padding
Weak
Fast
16, 24, or 32-byte
Not recommended due to CBC's vulnerability to padding oracle attacks. Key material accessible from control plane host.
aesgcm
AES-GCM with random nonce
Must be rotated every 200,000 writes
Fastest
16, 24, or 32-byte
Not recommended for use except when an automated key rotation scheme is implemented. Key material accessible from control plane host.
kms v1 (deprecated since Kubernetes v1.28)
Uses envelope encryption scheme with DEK per resource.
Strongest
Slow (compared to kms version 2)
32-bytes
Data is encrypted by data encryption keys (DEKs) using AES-GCM;
DEKs are encrypted by key encryption keys (KEKs) according to
configuration in Key Management Service (KMS).
Simple key rotation, with a new DEK generated for each encryption, and
KEK rotation controlled by the user.
Read how to configure the KMS V1 provider.
kms v2
Uses envelope encryption scheme with DEK per API server.
Strongest
Fast
32-bytes
Data is encrypted by data encryption keys (DEKs) using AES-GCM; DEKs
are encrypted by key encryption keys (KEKs) according to configuration
in Key Management Service (KMS).
Kubernetes generates a new DEK per encryption from a secret seed.
The seed is rotated whenever the KEK is rotated.
A good choice if using a third party tool for key management.
Available as stable from Kubernetes v1.29.
Read how to configure the KMS V2 provider.
secretbox
XSalsa20 and Poly1305
Strong
Faster
32-byte
Uses relatively new encryption technologies that may not be considered acceptable in environments that require high levels of review. Key material accessible from control plane host.
The identity provider is the default if you do not specify otherwise. The identity provider does not
encrypt stored data and provides no additional confidentiality protection.
Key storage
Local key storage
Encrypting secret data with a locally managed key protects against an etcd compromise, but it fails to
protect against a host compromise. Since the encryption keys are stored on the host in the
EncryptionConfiguration YAML file, a skilled attacker can access that file and extract the encryption
keys.
Managed (KMS) key storage
The KMS provider uses envelope encryption: Kubernetes encrypts resources using a data key, and then
encrypts that data key using the managed encryption service. Kubernetes generates a unique data key for
each resource. The API server stores an encrypted version of the data key in etcd alongside the ciphertext;
when reading the resource, the API server calls the managed encryption service and provides both the
ciphertext and the (encrypted) data key.
Within the managed encryption service, the provider use a key encryption key to decipher the data key,
deciphers the data key, and finally recovers the plain text. Communication between the control plane
and the KMS requires in-transit protection, such as TLS.
Using envelope encryption creates dependence on the key encryption key, which is not stored in Kubernetes.
In the KMS case, an attacker who intends to get unauthorised access to the plaintext
values would need to compromise etcd and the third-party KMS provider.
Protection for encryption keys
You should take appropriate measures to protect the confidential information that allows decryption,
whether that is a local encryption key, or an authentication token that allows the API server to
call KMS.
Even when you rely on a provider to manage the use and lifecycle of the main encryption key (or keys), you are still responsible
for making sure that access controls and other security measures for the managed encryption service are
appropriate for your security needs.
Encrypt your data
Generate the encryption key
The following steps assume that you are not using KMS, and therefore the steps also
assume that you need to generate an encryption key. If you already have an encryption key,
skip to Write an encryption configuration file.
Caution:
Storing the raw encryption key in the EncryptionConfig only moderately improves your security posture,
compared to no encryption.
For additional secrecy, consider using the kms provider as this relies on keys held outside your
Kubernetes cluster. Implementations of kms can work with hardware security modules or with
encryption services managed by your cloud provider.
To learn about setting
up encryption at rest using KMS, see
Using a KMS provider for data encryption.
The KMS provider plugin that you use may also come with additional specific documentation.
Start by generating a new encryption key, and then encode it using base64:
Linux
macOS
WindowsGenerate a 32-byte random key and base64 encode it. You can use this command:
head -c 32 /dev/urandom | base64
You can use /dev/hwrng instead of /dev/urandom if you want to
use your PC's built-in hardware entropy source. Not all Linux
devices provide a hardware random generator.
Generate a 32-byte random key and base64 encode it. You can use this command:
head -c 32 /dev/urandom | base64
Generate a 32-byte random key and base64 encode it. You can use this command:
# Do not run this in a session where you have set a random number
# generator seed.
[Convert]::ToBase64String((1..32|%{[byte](Get-Random -Max 256)}))
Note:
Keep the encryption key confidential, including while you generate it and
ideally even after you are no longer actively using it.
Replicate the encryption key
Using a secure mechanism for file transfer, make a copy of that encryption key
available to every other control plane host.
At a minimum, use encryption in transit - for example, secure shell (SSH). For more
security, use asymmetric encryption between hosts, or change the approach you are using
so that you're relying on KMS encryption.
Write an encryption configuration file
Caution:
The encryption configuration file may contain keys that can decrypt content in etcd.
If the configuration file contains any key material, you must properly
restrict permissions on all your control plane hosts so only the user
who runs the kube-apiserver can read this configuration.
Create a new encryption configuration file. The contents should be similar to:
---
apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
kind: EncryptionConfiguration
resources:
- resources:
- secrets
- configmaps
- pandas.awesome.bears.example
providers:
- aescbc:
keys:
- name: key1
# See the following text for more details about the secret value
secret: <BASE 64 ENCODED SECRET>
- identity: {} # this fallback allows reading unencrypted secrets;
# for example, during initial migration
To create a new encryption key (that does not use KMS), see
Generate the encryption key.
Use the new encryption configuration file
You will need to mount the new encryption config file to the kube-apiserver static pod. Here is an example on how to do that:
Save the new encryption config file to /etc/kubernetes/enc/enc.yaml on the control-plane node.
Edit the manifest for the kube-apiserver static pod: /etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml so that it is similar to:
---
#
# This is a fragment of a manifest for a static Pod.
# Check whether this is correct for your cluster and for your API server.
#
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
annotations:
kubeadm.kubernetes.io/kube-apiserver.advertise-address.endpoint: 10.20.30.40:443
creationTimestamp: null
labels:
app.kubernetes.io/component: kube-apiserver
tier: control-plane
name: kube-apiserver
namespace: kube-system
spec:
containers:
- command:
- kube-apiserver
...
- --encryption-provider-config=/etc/kubernetes/enc/enc.yaml  # add this line
volumeMounts:
...
- name: enc                           # add this line
mountPath: /etc/kubernetes/enc      # add this line
readOnly: true                      # add this line
...
volumes:
...
- name: enc                             # add this line
hostPath:                             # add this line
path: /etc/kubernetes/enc           # add this line
type: DirectoryOrCreate             # add this line
...
Restart your API server.
Caution:
Your config file contains keys that can decrypt the contents in etcd, so you must properly restrict
permissions on your control-plane nodes so only the user who runs the kube-apiserver can read it.
You now have encryption in place for one control plane host. A typical
Kubernetes cluster has multiple control plane hosts, so there is more to do.
Reconfigure other control plane hosts
If you have multiple API servers in your cluster, you should deploy the
changes in turn to each API server.
Caution:
For cluster configurations with two or more control plane nodes, the encryption configuration
should be identical across each control plane node.
If there is a difference in the encryption provider configuration between control plane
nodes, this difference may mean that the kube-apiserver can't decrypt data.
When you are planning to update the encryption configuration of your cluster, plan this
so that the API servers in your control plane can always decrypt the stored data
(even part way through rolling out the change).
Make sure that you use the same encryption configuration on each
control plane host.
Verify that newly written data is encrypted
Data is encrypted when written to etcd. After restarting your kube-apiserver, any newly
created or updated Secret (or other resource kinds configured in EncryptionConfiguration)
should be encrypted when stored.
To check this, you can use the etcdctl command line
program to retrieve the contents of your secret data.
This example shows how to check this for encrypting the Secret API.
Create a new Secret called secret1 in the default namespace:
kubectl create secret generic secret1 -n default --from-literal=mykey=mydata
Using the etcdctl command line tool, read that Secret out of etcd:
ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl get /registry/secrets/default/secret1 [...] | hexdump -C
where [...] must be the additional arguments for connecting to the etcd server.
For example:
ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl \
--cacert=/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt   \
--cert=/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt \
--key=/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.key  \
get /registry/secrets/default/secret1 | hexdump -C
The output is similar to this (abbreviated):
00000000  2f 72 65 67 69 73 74 72  79 2f 73 65 63 72 65 74  |/registry/secret|
00000010  73 2f 64 65 66 61 75 6c  74 2f 73 65 63 72 65 74  |s/default/secret|
00000020  31 0a 6b 38 73 3a 65 6e  63 3a 61 65 73 63 62 63  |1.k8s:enc:aescbc|
00000030  3a 76 31 3a 6b 65 79 31  3a c7 6c e7 d3 09 bc 06  |:v1:key1:.l.....|
00000040  25 51 91 e4 e0 6c e5 b1  4d 7a 8b 3d b9 c2 7c 6e  |%Q...l..Mz.=..|n|
00000050  b4 79 df 05 28 ae 0d 8e  5f 35 13 2c c0 18 99 3e  |.y..(..._5.,...>|
[...]
00000110  23 3a 0d fc 28 ca 48 2d  6b 2d 46 cc 72 0b 70 4c  |#:..(.H-k-F.r.pL|
00000120  a5 fc 35 43 12 4e 60 ef  bf 6f fe cf df 0b ad 1f  |..5C.N`..o......|
00000130  82 c4 88 53 02 da 3e 66  ff 0a                    |...S..>f..|
0000013a
Verify the stored Secret is prefixed with k8s:enc:aescbc:v1: which indicates
the aescbc provider has encrypted the resulting data. Confirm that the key name shown in etcd
matches the key name specified in the EncryptionConfiguration mentioned above. In this example,
you can see that the encryption key named key1 is used in etcd and in EncryptionConfiguration.
Verify the Secret is correctly decrypted when retrieved via the API:
kubectl get secret secret1 -n default -o yaml
The output should contain mykey: bXlkYXRh, with contents of mydata encoded using base64;
read
decoding a Secret
to learn how to completely decode the Secret.
Ensure all relevant data are encrypted
It's often not enough to make sure that new objects get encrypted: you also want that
encryption to apply to the objects that are already stored.
For this example, you have configured your cluster so that Secrets are encrypted on write.
Performing a replace operation for each Secret will encrypt that content at rest,
where the objects are unchanged.
You can make this change across all Secrets in your cluster:
# Run this as an administrator that can read and write all Secrets
kubectl get secrets --all-namespaces -o json | kubectl replace -f -
The command above reads all Secrets and then updates them with the same data, in order to
apply server side encryption.
Note:
If an error occurs due to a conflicting write, retry the command.
It is safe to run that command more than once.
For larger clusters, you may wish to subdivide the Secrets by namespace,
or script an update.
Prevent plain text retrieval
If you want to make sure that the only access to a particular API kind is done using
encryption, you can remove the API server's ability to read that API's backing data
as plaintext.
Warning:
Making this change prevents the API server from retrieving resources that are marked
as encrypted at rest, but are actually stored in the clear.
When you have configured encryption at rest for an API (for example: the API kind
Secret, representing secrets resources in the core API group), you must ensure
that all those resources in this cluster really are encrypted at rest. Check this before
you carry on with the next steps.
Once all Secrets in your cluster are encrypted, you can remove the identity
part of the encryption configuration. For example:
---
apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
kind: EncryptionConfiguration
resources:
- resources:
- secrets
providers:
- aescbc:
keys:
- name: key1
secret: <BASE 64 ENCODED SECRET>
- identity: {} # REMOVE THIS LINE
…and then restart each API server in turn. This change prevents the API server
from accessing a plain-text Secret, even by accident.
Rotate a decryption key
Changing an encryption key for Kubernetes without incurring downtime requires a multi-step operation,
especially in the presence of a highly-available deployment where multiple kube-apiserver processes
are running.
Generate a new key and add it as the second key entry for the current provider on all
control plane nodes.
Restart all kube-apiserver processes, to ensure each server can decrypt
any data that are encrypted with the new key.
Make a secure backup of the new encryption key. If you lose all copies of this key you would
need to delete all the resources were encrypted under the lost key, and workloads may not
operate as expected during the time that at-rest encryption is broken.
Make the new key the first entry in the keys array so that it is used for encryption-at-rest
for new writes
Restart all kube-apiserver processes to ensure each control plane host now encrypts using the new key
As a privileged user, run kubectl get secrets --all-namespaces -o json | kubectl replace -f -
to encrypt all existing Secrets with the new key
After you have updated all existing Secrets to use the new key and have made a secure backup of the
new key, remove the old decryption key from the configuration.
Decrypt all data
This example shows how to stop encrypting the Secret API at rest. If you are encrypting
other API kinds, adjust the steps to match.
To disable encryption at rest, place the identity provider as the first
entry in your encryption configuration file:
---
apiVersion: apiserver.config.k8s.io/v1
kind: EncryptionConfiguration
resources:
- resources:
- secrets
# list any other resources here that you previously were
# encrypting at rest
providers:
- identity: {} # add this line
- aescbc:
keys:
- name: key1
secret: <BASE 64 ENCODED SECRET> # keep this in place
# make sure it comes after "identity"
Then run the following command to force decryption of all Secrets:
kubectl get secrets --all-namespaces -o json | kubectl replace -f -
Once you have replaced all existing encrypted resources with backing data that
don't use encryption, you can remove the encryption settings from the
kube-apiserver.
Configure automatic reloading
You can configure automatic reloading of encryption provider configuration.
That setting determines whether the
API server should
load the file you specify for --encryption-provider-config only once at
startup, or automatically whenever you change that file. Enabling this option
allows you to change the keys for encryption at rest without restarting the
API server.
To allow automatic reloading, configure the API server to run with:
--encryption-provider-config-automatic-reload=true.
When enabled, file changes are polled every minute to observe the modifications.
The apiserver_encryption_config_controller_automatic_reload_last_timestamp_seconds
metric identifies when the new config becomes effective. This allows
encryption keys to be rotated without restarting the API server.
What's next
Read about decrypting data that are already stored at rest
Learn more about the EncryptionConfiguration configuration API (v1).
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Yes
NoThanks for the feedback. If you have a specific, answerable question about how to use Kubernetes, ask it on
Stack Overflow.
Open an issue in the GitHub Repository if you want to
report a problem
or
suggest an improvement.
Last modified May 09, 2025 at 12:28 PM PST: Sync encryption docs reviewers with kubernetes sig-auth-encryption-at-rest-reviewers (4e42436cf9)
© 2026 The Kubernetes Authors | Documentation Distributed under CC BY 4.0
© 2026 Copyright © Kubernetes a Series of LF Projects, LLC. For website terms of use, trademark policy and other project policies please see https://lfprojects.org/policies/
ICP license: 京ICP备17074266号-3