1.
Exploratory Data Analysis

1.3.
EDA Techniques

1.3.3.
Graphical Techniques: Alphabetic

1.3.3.21.

Normal Probability Plot

Purpose:

Check If Data Are Approximately Normally Distributed

The normal probability plot
( Chambers et al.,
1983 ) is a graphical technique for assessing whether or
not a data set is approximately
normally distributed.

The data are plotted against a theoretical normal
distribution in such a way that the points should form
an approximate straight line. Departures from this straight
line indicate departures from normality.

The normal probability plot is a special case of the
probability plot . We cover
the normal probability plot separately due to its importance
in many applications.

Sample Plot

The points on this normal probablity plot of
100 normal random numbers
form a nearly linear pattern, which indicates that the normal
distribution is a good model for this data set.

Definition:

Ordered Response Values Versus Normal Order Statistic
Medians

The normal probability plot is formed by:

- Vertical axis: Ordered response values

- Horizontal axis: Normal order statistic medians

The observations are plotted as a function of the corresponding
normal order statistic medians which are defined as:

N i = G ( U i )

where U i are the uniform order statistic
medians (defined below) and G is the
percent point function of the normal
distribution. The percent point function is the inverse of the
cumulative distribution function
(probability that x is less than or equal to some value).
That is, given a probability, we want the corresponding x
of the cumulative distribution function.

The uniform order statistic medians (see Filliben 1975)
can be approximated by:

U i = 1 - U n
for i = 1

U i = ( i - 0.3175)/( n + 0.365)
for i = 2, 3, ..., n -1

U i = 0.5 (1/ n )
for i = n

In addition, a straight line can be fit to the points
and added as a reference line. The further the points
vary from this line, the greater the indication of
departures from normality.

Probability plots
for distributions other than the normal
are computed in exactly the same way. The normal percent
point function (the G ) is simply replaced by the percent
point function of the desired distribution. That is, a
probability plot can easily be generated for any
distribution for which you have the percent point function.

One advantage of this method of computing probability plots
is that the intercept and slope estimates of the fitted
line are in fact estimates for the location and scale
parameters of the distribution. Although this is not
too important for the normal distribution since the location
and scale are estimated by the mean and standard deviation,
respectively, it can be useful for many other distributions.

The correlation coefficient of the points on the normal
probability plot can be compared to a
table of critical values to
provide a formal test of the hypothesis that
the data come from a normal distribution.

Questions

The normal probability plot is used to answer the
following questions.

- Are the data normally distributed?

- What is the nature of the departure from normality
(data skewed, shorter than expected tails, longer
than expected tails)?

Importance:

Check Normality Assumption

The underlying assumptions for a measurement process
are that the data should behave like:

- random drawings;

- from a fixed distribution;

- with fixed location;

- with fixed scale.

Probability plots are used to assess the assumption
of a fixed distribution. In particular, most statistical
models are of the form:

response = deterministic + random

where the deterministic part is the fit and the random
part is error. This error component in most common
statistical models is specifically assumed to be normally
distributed with fixed location and scale. This is the
most frequent application of normal probability plots.
That is, a model is fit and a normal probability plot is
generated for the residuals from the fitted model. If the
residuals from the fitted model are not normally
distributed, then one of the major assumptions of the
model has been violated.

Examples

- Data are normally distributed

- Data have short tails

- Data have fat tails

- Data are skewed right

Related Techniques

Histogram

Probability plots for other
distributions (e.g., Weibull)

Probability plot correlation coefficient
plot (PPCC plot)
Anderson-Darling Goodness-of-Fit
Test

Chi-Square Goodness-of-Fit Test

Kolmogorov-Smirnov Goodness-of-Fit
Test

Case Study

The normal probability plot is demonstrated in the
heat flow meter data
case study.

Software

Most general purpose statistical software programs can
generate a normal probability plot.