1.
Exploratory Data Analysis

1.3.
EDA Techniques

1.3.3.
Graphical Techniques: Alphabetic

1.3.3.7.

Box Plot

Purpose:

Check location and
variation shifts

Box plots
( Chambers 1983 )
are an excellent tool for conveying location and variation information
in data sets, particularly for detecting and illustrating
location and variation changes between different groups of data.

Sample Plot:

This box plot reveals that machine has a significant effect
on energy with respect to location and possibly variation

This box plot, comparing four
machines for energy output , shows that
machine has a significant effect on energy with respect to both
location and variation. Machine 3 has the highest energy response
(about 72.5); machine 4 has the least variable energy response with
about 50% of its readings being within 1 energy unit.

Definition

Box plots are formed by

Vertical axis: Response variable

Horizontal axis: The factor of interest

More specifically, we

- Calculate the median and the
quartiles (the lower quartile
is the 25th percentile and the upper quartile is the 75th
percentile).

- Plot a symbol at the median (or draw a line) and draw a box
(hence the name--box plot) between the lower and upper
quartiles; this box represents the middle 50% of the
data--the "body" of the data.

- Draw a line from the lower quartile to the minimum point and
another line from the upper quartile to the maximum point.
Typically a symbol is drawn at these minimum and maximum
points, although this is optional.

Thus the box plot identifies the middle 50% of the
data, the median, and the extreme points.

Single or multiple box plots can be drawn

A single box plot can be drawn for one batch of data with no distinct
groups. Alternatively, multiple box plots can be drawn together to
compare multiple data sets or to compare groups in a single data set.
For a single box plot, the width of the box is arbitrary. For multiple
box plots, the width of the box plot can be set proportional to the
number of points in the given group or sample (some software
implementations of the box plot simply set all the boxes to the
same width).

Box plots with fences

There is a useful variation of the box plot that more specifically
identifies outliers. To create this variation:

- Calculate the median and the
lower and upper quartiles .

- Plot a symbol at the median and draw a box between the
lower and upper quartiles.

- Calculate the interquartile range (the difference between
the upper and lower quartile) and call it IQ.

- Calculate the following points:

L1 = lower quartile - 1.5*IQ

L2 = lower quartile - 3.0*IQ

U1 = upper quartile + 1.5*IQ

U2 = upper quartile + 3.0*IQ

- The line from the lower quartile to the minimum is now
drawn from the lower quartile to the smallest point that
is greater than L1. Likewise, the line from the upper
quartile to the maximum is now drawn to the largest point
smaller than U1.

- Points between L1 and L2 or between U1 and U2 are drawn as
small circles. Points less than L2 or greater than U2 are
drawn as large circles.

Questions

The box plot can provide answers to the following questions:

- Is a factor significant?

- Does the location differ between subgroups?

- Does the variation differ between subgroups?

- Are there any outliers?

Importance:

Check the significance
of a factor

The box plot is an important EDA tool for
determining if a factor has a significant effect
on the response with respect to either location or variation.

The box plot is also an effective tool for summarizing large
quantities of information.

Related Techniques

Mean Plot

Analysis of Variance

Case Study

The box plot is demonstrated in the
ceramic strength data
case study.

Software

Box plots are available in most general purpose statistical software
programs.