2.
Measurement Process Characterization

2.4.
Gauge R & R studies

2.4.5.
Analysis of bias

2.4.5.2.

Linearity of the gauge

Definition of linearity for gauge studies

Linearity is given a narrow interpretation in this Handbook to
indicate that gauge response increases in equal increments to equal
increments of stimulus, or, if the gauge is biased, that the bias
remains constant throughout the course of the measurement process.

Data collection and repetitions

A determination of linearity requires Q ( Q > 4) reference
standards that cover the range of interest in fairly equal increments
and J ( J > 1) measurements on each reference standard. One
measurement is made on each of the reference standards, and the process
is repeated J times.

Plot of the data

A test of linearity starts with a plot of the measured values versus
corresponding values of the reference standards to obtain an indication
of whether or not the points fall on a straight line with slope equal
to 1 -- indicating linearity.

Least-squares estimates of bias and slope

A least-squares fit of the
data to the model

Y = a + bX + measurement error

where Y is the measurement result and
X is the value of the reference standard,
produces an estimate of the intercept, a ,
and the slope, b .

Output from software package

The intercept and bias are estimated using a statistical software
package that should provide the following information:

- Estimates of the intercept and slope, \( \hat{a}, \, \hat{b} \)
-->
-->

- Standard deviations of the intercept and slope

- Residual standard deviation of the fit

- F-test for goodness of fit

Test for linearity

Tests for the slope and bias
are described in the section on instrument calibration. If the slope
is different from one, the gauge is non-linear and requires
calibration or repair. If the
intercept is different from zero, the gauge has a bias.

Causes of non-linearity

The reference manual on Measurement Systems Analysis
( MSA ) lists possible causes of
gauge non-linearity that should be investigated if the gauge shows
symptoms of non-linearity.

- Gauge not properly calibrated at the lower and upper ends of
the operating range

- Error in the value of X at the
maximum or minimum range

- Worn gauge

- Internal design problems (electronics)

Note - on artifact calibration

The requirement of linearity for artifact calibration is not so
stringent. Where the gauge is used as a comparator for measuring small
differences among test items and reference standards of the same nominal
size, as with calibration designs ,
the only requirement is that the gauge be linear over the small on-scale
range needed to measure both the reference standard and the test item.

Situation where the calibration of the gauge is neglected

Sometimes it is not economically feasible to correct for the
calibration of the gauge ( Turgel and Vecchia ). In this case, the bias that is incurred by
neglecting the calibration is estimated as a component of uncertainty.