5.
Process Improvement

5.3.
Choosing an experimental design

5.3.3.
How do you select an experimental design?

5.3.3.4.

Fractional factorial designs

Full factorial experiments can require many runs

The ASQC (1983) Glossary & Tables for Statistical Quality Control
defines fractional factorial design in the following way: " A
factorial experiment in which only an adequately chosen fraction of the
treatment combinations required for the complete factorial experiment is
selected to be run. "

A carefully chosen fraction of the runs may be all that is
necessary

Even if the number of factors, k , in a design is small, the
2 k runs specified for a full factorial can quickly
become very large. For example, 2 6 = 64 runs is for a
two-level, full factorial design with six factors. To this design we
need to add a good number of centerpoint runs and we can thus quickly
run up a very large resource requirement for runs with only
a modest number of factors.

Later sections will show how to choose the "right" fraction
for 2-level designs - these are both balanced and orthogonal

The solution to this problem is to use only a fraction of the runs
specified by the full factorial design. Which runs to make and which
to leave out is the subject of interest here. In general, we pick a
fraction such as &frac12;, &frac14;, etc. of the runs called for by
the full factorial. We use various strategies that ensure an
appropriate choice of runs. The following sections will show you how
to choose an appropriate fraction of a full factorial design to suit
your purpose at hand. Properly chosen fractional factorial
designs for 2-level experiments have the desirable properties of being
both balanced and
orthogonal .

2-Level fractional factorial designs emphasized

Note: We will be emphasizing fractions of two-level designs
only. This is because two-level fractional designs are, in engineering
at least, by far the most popular fractional designs. Fractional
factorials where some factors have three levels will be covered briefly
in Section 5.3.3.10 .