1.
Exploratory Data Analysis

1.3.
EDA Techniques

1.3.3.
Graphical Techniques: Alphabetic

1.3.3.26.

Scatter Plot

Purpose:

Check for Relationship

A scatter plot ( Chambers
1983 ) reveals relationships or association between two
variables. Such relationships manifest themselves by any
non-random structure in the plot. Various common types of patterns
are demonstrated in the examples .

Sample Plot:

Linear Relationship
Between Variables Y and X

This sample plot of
the Alaska pipeline data reveals
a linear relationship between the two variables indicating that a
linear regression model
might be appropriate.

Definition:

Y Versus X

A scatter plot is a plot of the values of Y versus the
corresponding values of X :

- Vertical axis: variable Y --usually the response variable

- Horizontal axis: variable X --usually some variable we suspect
may ber related to the response

Questions

Scatter plots can provide answers to the following questions:

- Are variables X and Y related?

- Are variables X and Y linearly related?

- Are variables X and Y non-linearly related?

- Does the variation in Y change depending on X ?

- Are there outliers?

Importance:

Uncover relationships
between variables

The cornerstone of science and engineering is the discovery of
deterministic, predictable, repeatable cause-and-effect relationships
between variables. Similarly, the cornerstone of EDA is the scatter
plot, which is the most important and most heavily used graphical tool
for uncovering the existence and nature of relationships between
variables.

Scatter plots reveal association, which is step one toward
cause-and-effect. There is no statistical procedure, the scatter plot
included, that proves cause-and-effect. Such proof is beyond
the realm of statistics. Scatter plots can highly suggest
cause-and-effect, but the ultimate proof of such is the scientist and
engineer--in his/her noting the strucure in the data and then
explaining such structure via scientific and engineering experience
and expertise.

-->

Examples

- No relationship

- Strong linear (positive correlation)

- Strong linear (negative correlation)

- Exact linear (positive correlation)

- Quadratic relationship

- Exponential relationship

- Sinusoidal relationship (damped)

- Variation of Y doesn't depend on
X (homoscedastic)

- Variation of Y does depend on
X (heteroscedastic)

- Outlier

Combining Scatter Plots

Scatter plots can also be combined in multiple plots per page to
help understand higher-level structure in data sets with more than
two variables.

The scatterplot matrix generates
all pairwise scatter plots on a single page. The
conditioning plot , also called a
co-plot or subset plot, generates scatter plots of Y versus
X dependent on the value of a third variable.

Causality Is Not Proved By Association

The scatter plot uncovers relationships in
data. "Relationships" means that there is some structured
association (linear, quadratic, etc.) between X and Y .
Note, however, that even though

causality implies association

association does NOT imply causality.

Scatter plots are a useful diagnostic tool
for determining association, but if such
association exists, the plot may or may not suggest
an underlying cause-and-effect mechanism.
A scatter plot can never "prove" cause and
effect--it is ultimately only the researcher
(relying on the underlying science/engineering)
who can conclude that causality actually exists.

Appearance

The most popular rendition of a scatter plot is

- some plot character (e.g., X) at the data points, and

- no line connecting data points.

Other scatter plot format variants include

- an optional plot character (e.g, X) at the data points,
but

- a solid line connecting data points.

In both cases, the resulting plot is referred to as a scatter
plot, although the former (discrete and disconnected) is the
author's personal preference since nothing makes it onto the
screen except the data--there are no interpolative
artifacts to bias the interpretation.

Related Techniques

Run Sequence Plot

Box Plot

Block Plot

Case Study

The scatter plot is demonstrated in the
load cell calibration data
case study.

Software

Scatter plots are a fundamental technique that should be available
in any general purpose statistical software program. Scatter plots are
also available in most graphics and spreadsheet programs as well.