2.
Measurement Process Characterization

2.1.
Characterization

2.1.1.
What are the issues for characterization?

2.1.1.3.

Bias and Accuracy

Definition of Accuracy and Bias

Accuracy is a qualitative term referring to whether there is agreement
between a measurement made on an object and its true (target or
reference) value. Bias is a quantitative term describing the difference
between the average of measurements made on the same object and its
true value. In particular, for a measurement laboratory, bias is the
difference (generally unknown) between a laboratory's average value
(over time) for a test item and the average that would be achieved by
the reference laboratory if it undertook the same measurements on the
same test item.

Depiction of bias and unbiased measurements

Unbiased measurements relative to the target

Biased measurements relative to the target

Identification of bias

Bias in a measurement process can be identified by:

- Calibration of standards
and/or instruments by a reference laboratory,
where a value is assigned to the client's standard
based on comparisons with the reference laboratory's
standards.

- Check standards , where violations
of the control limits on a
control chart for the check standard suggest that
re-calibration of standards or instruments is needed.

- Measurement assurance programs, where artifacts from a
reference laboratory or other qualified agency are
sent to a client and measured in the client's environment
as a 'blind' sample.

- Interlaboratory comparisons,
where reference standards or materials are circulated
among several laboratories.

Reduction of bias

Bias can be eliminated or reduced by calibration of standards
and/or instruments. Because of costs and time constraints,
the majority of calibrations are performed by secondary or
tertiary laboratories and are related to the reference base
via a chain of intercomparisons that start at the reference laboratory.

Bias can also be reduced by corrections to in-house measurements
based on comparisons with artifacts or instruments circulated
for that purpose (reference materials).

Caution

Errors that contribute to bias can be present
even where all equipment and standards are properly
calibrated and under control. Temperature probably has
the most potential for introducing this type of bias
into the measurements. For example, a constant heat
source will introduce serious errors in dimensional
measurements of metal objects. Temperature affects
chemical and electrical measurements as well.

Generally speaking, errors of this type can be
identified only by those who are thoroughly familiar with the
measurement technology. The reader is advised to consult
the technical literature and experts in the field for guidance.