Chapter 1

Introduction
To Flying
Introduction
The Pilot’s Handbook of Aeronautical Knowledge provides
basic knowledge for the student pilot learning to fly, as well
as pilots seeking advanced pilot certification. For detailed
information on a variety of specialized flight topics, see
specific Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) handbooks
and Advisory Circulars (ACs).
This chapter offers a brief history of flight, introduces the
history and role of the FAA in civil aviation, FAA regulations
and standards, government references and publications,
eligibility for pilot certificates, available routes to flight
instruction, the role of the Certificated Flight Instructor (CFI)
and Designated Pilot Examiner (DPE) in flight training,
Practical Test Standards (PTS), and new, industry-developed
Airman Certification Standards (ACS) framework that will
eventually replace the PTS.

1-1

History of Flight
From prehistoric times, humans have watched the flight of
birds, and longed to imitate them, but lacked the power to do
so. Logic dictated that if the small muscles of birds can lift
them into the air and sustain them, then the larger muscles
of humans should be able to duplicate the feat. No one knew
about the intricate mesh of muscles, sinew, heart, breathing
system, and devices not unlike wing flaps, variable-camber
and spoilers of the modern airplane that enabled a bird to
fly. Still, thousands of years and countless lives were lost in
attempts to fly like birds.
The identity of the first “bird-men” who fitted themselves
with wings and leapt off of cliffs in an effort to fly are lost in
time, but each failure gave those who wished to fly questions
that needed to be answered. Where had the wing flappers
gone wrong? Philosophers, scientists, and inventors offered
solutions, but no one could add wings to the human body
and soar like a bird. During the 1500s, Leonardo da Vinci
filled pages of his notebooks with sketches of proposed
flying machines, but most of his ideas were flawed because
he clung to the idea of birdlike wings. [Figure 1-1] By
1655, mathematician, physicist, and inventor Robert Hooke
concluded that the human body does not possess the strength
to power artificial wings. He believed human flight would
require some form of artificial propulsion.

billowing heap of cloth capable of no more than a one-way,
downwind journey.
Balloons solved the problem of lift, but that was only one of
the problems of human flight. The ability to control speed and
direction eluded balloonists. The solution to that problem lay
in a child’s toy familiar to the East for 2,000 years, but not
introduced to the West until the 13th century—the kite. The
kites used by the Chinese for aerial observation, to test winds
for sailing, as a signaling device, and as a toy, held many of
the answers to lifting a heavier-than-air device into the air.
One of the men who believed the study of kites unlocked
the secrets of winged flight was Sir George Cayley. Born
in England 10 years before the Mongolfier balloon flight,
Cayley spent his 84 years seeking to develop a heavier-thanair vehicle supported by kite-shaped wings. [Figure 1-2] The
“Father of Aerial Navigation,” Cayley discovered the basic
principles on which the modern science of aeronautics is
founded; built what is recognized as the first successful flying
model; and tested the first full-size man-carrying airplane.

The quest for human flight led some practitioners in another
direction. In 1783, the first manned hot air balloon, crafted
by Joseph and Etienne Montgolfier, flew for 23 minutes.
Ten days later, Professor Jacques Charles flew the first gas
balloon. A madness for balloon flight captivated the public’s
imagination and for a time flying enthusiasts turned their
expertise to the promise of lighter-than-air flight. But for
all its majesty in the air, the balloon was little more than a

Figure 1-2. Glider from 1852 by Sir George Cayley, British aviator
Figure 1-1. Leonardo da Vinci’s ornithopter wings.

1-2

(1773–1857).

For the half-century after Cayley’s death, countless scientists,
flying enthusiasts, and inventors worked toward building
a powered flying machine. Men, such as William Samuel
Henson, who designed a huge monoplane that was propelled
by a steam engine housed inside the fuselage, and Otto
Lilienthal, who proved human flight in aircraft heavier than
air was practical, worked toward the dream of powered flight.
A dream turned into reality by Wilbur and Orville Wright at
Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, on December 17, 1903.
The bicycle-building Wright brothers of Dayton, Ohio, had
experimented for 4 years with kites, their own homemade
wind tunnel, and different engines to power their biplane. One
of their great achievements in flight was proving the value of
the scientific, rather than a build-it-and-see approach. Their
biplane, The Flyer, combined inspired design and engineering
with superior craftsmanship. [Figure 1-3] By the afternoon
of December 17th, the Wright brothers had flown a total of
98 seconds on four flights. The age of flight had arrived.

History of the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA)
During the early years of manned flight, aviation was a
free for all because no government body was in place to
establish policies or regulate and enforce safety standards.
Individuals were free to conduct flights and operate aircraft
with no government oversight. Most of the early flights were
conducted for sport. Aviation was expensive and became the
playground of the wealthy. Since these early airplanes were
small, many people doubted their commercial value. One
group of individuals believed otherwise and they became
the genesis for modern airline travel.
P. E. Fansler, a Florida businessman living in St. Petersburg,
approached Tom Benoist of the Benoist Aircraft Company
in St. Louis, Missouri, about starting a flight route from St.

Figure 1-3. First flight by the Wright brothers.

Petersburg across the waterway to Tampa. Benoist suggested
using his “Safety First” airboat and the two men signed an
agreement for what would become the first scheduled airline
in the United States. The first aircraft was delivered to St.
Petersburg and made the first test flight on December 31,
1913. [Figure 1-4]
A public auction decided who would win the honor of
becoming the first paying airline customer. The former
mayor of St. Petersburg, A. C. Pheil, made the winning bid
of $400.00, which secured his place in history as the first
paying airline passenger.
On January 1, 1914, the first scheduled airline flight was
conducted. The flight length was 21 miles and lasted 23
minutes due to a headwind. The return trip took 20 minutes.
The line, which was subsidized by Florida businessmen,
continued for 4 months and offered regular passage for $5.00
per person or $5.00 per 100 pounds of cargo. Shortly after the
opening of the line, Benoist added a new airboat that afforded
more protection from spray during takeoff and landing.
The routes were also extended to Manatee, Bradenton, and
Sarasota giving further credence to the idea of a profitable
commercial airline.
The St. Petersburg-Tampa Airboat Line continued throughout
the winter months with flights finally being suspended when
the winter tourist industry began to dry up. The airline
operated for only 4 months, but 1,205 passengers were
carried without injury. This experiment proved commercial
passenger airline travel was viable.
The advent of World War I offered the airplane a chance
to demonstrate its varied capabilities. It began the war as a
reconnaissance platform, but by 1918, airplanes were being

Figure 1-4. Benoist airboat.

1-3

mass produced to serve as fighters, bombers, trainers, as well
as reconnaissance platforms.

1
2
3

Aviation advocates continued to look for ways to use
airplanes. Airmail service was a popular idea, but the
war prevented the Postal Service from having access to
airplanes. The War Department and Postal Service reached an
agreement in 1918. The Army would use the mail service to
train its pilots in flying cross-country. The first airmail flight
was conducted on May 15, 1918, between New York and
Washington, DC. The flight was not considered spectacular;
the pilot became lost and landed at the wrong airfield. In
August of 1918, the United States Postal Service took control
of the airmail routes and brought the existing Army airmail
pilots and their planes into the program as postal employees.
Transcontinental Air Mail Route
Airmail routes continued to expand until the Transcontinental
Mail Route was inaugurated. [Figure 1-5] This route spanned
from San Francisco to New York for a total distance of 2,612
miles with 13 intermediate stops along the way. [Figure 1-6]
On May 20, 1926, Congress passed the Air Commerce Act,
which served as the cornerstone for aviation within the
United States. This legislation was supported by leaders in
the aviation industry who felt that the airplane could not
reach its full potential without assistance from the Federal
Government in improving safety.
The Air Commerce Act charged the Secretary of Commerce
with fostering air commerce, issuing and enforcing air traffic
rules, licensing pilots, certificating aircraft, establishing
airways, and operating and maintaining aids to air navigation.
The Department of Commerce created a new Aeronautics
Branch whose primary mission was to provide oversight for the
aviation industry. In addition, the Aeronautics Branch took over
the construction and operation of the nation’s system of lighted
airways. The Postal Service, as part of the Transcontinental
Air Mail Route system, had initiated this system. The

4
5

New York
Bellefonte
Cleveland
Bryan
Chicago

13
14

12

6

11

7

12

Iowa City
Omaha
8
North Platte
9
Cheyenne
10
Rawlins

11 10
9

8

7

6

Rock Springs
Salt Lake City
13
Elko
14
Reno
15
San Francisco

5

4

3

2

1

15

Figure 1-6. The transcontinental airmail route ran from New York

to San Francisco.

Department of Commerce made significant advances in
aviation communications, including the introduction of radio
beacons as an effective means of navigation.
Built at intervals of approximately 10 miles apart, the
standard beacon tower was 51 feet high, and was topped
with a powerful rotating light. Below the rotating light, two
course lights pointed forward and back along the airway. The
course lights flashed a code to identify the beacon’s number.
The tower usually stood in the center of a concrete arrow
70 feet long. A generator shed, where required, stood at the
“feather” end of the arrow. [Figure 1-7]
Federal Certification of Pilots and Mechanics
The Aeronautics Branch of the Department of Commerce
began pilot certification with the first license issued on April
6, 1927. The recipient was the Chief of the Aeronautics
Branch, William P. MacCracken, Jr. [Figure 1-8] (Orville
Wright, who was no longer an active flier, had declined the
honor.) MacCracken’s license was the first issued to a pilot
by a civilian agency of the Federal Government. Some 3
months later, the Aeronautics Branch issued the first Federal
aircraft mechanic license.
Equally important for safety was the establishment of a
system of certification for aircraft. On March 29, 1927,
the Aeronautics Branch issued the first airworthiness
type certificate to the Buhl Airster CA-3, a three-place
open biplane.

Figure 1-5. The de Haviland DH-4 on the New York to San

Francisco inaugural route in 1921.

1-4

In 1934, to recognize the tremendous strides made in aviation
and to display the enhanced status within the department,
the Aeronautics Branch was renamed the Bureau of Air
Commerce. [Figure 1-9] Within this time frame, the Bureau
of Air Commerce brought together a group of airlines

-D KC
Figure
1-7.
A standard
airway
beacon
tower.
Figure
1-8.
Standard
airway
beacon
installation.

Figure 1-9. The third head of the Aeronautics Branch, Eugene

L. Vidal, is flanked by President Franklin D. Roosevelt (left) and
Secretary of Agriculture Henry A. Wallace (right). The photograph
was taken in 1933. During Vidal’s tenure, the Aeronautics Branch
was renamed the Bureau of Air Commerce on July 1, 1934. The
new name more accurately reflected the status of the organization
within the Department of Commerce.

and encouraged them to form the first three Air Traffic
Control (ATC) facilities along the established air routes.
Then in 1936, the Bureau of Air Commerce took over the
responsibilities of operating the centers and continued to
advance the ATC facilities. ATC has come a long way from
the early controllers using maps, chalkboards, and performing
mental math calculations in order to separate aircraft along
flight routes.
The Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938
In 1938, the Civil Aeronautics Act transferred the civil
aviation responsibilities to a newly created, independent
body, named the Civil Aeronautics Authority (CAA). This
Act empowered the CAA to regulate airfares and establish
new routes for the airlines to service.

Figure 1-8. The first pilot license was issued to William P.

President Franklin Roosevelt split the CAA into two
agencies—the Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA)
and the Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB). Both agencies
were still part of the Department of Commerce but the CAB
functioned independently of the Secretary of Commerce.
The role of the CAA was to facilitate ATC, certification of
airmen and aircraft, rule enforcement, and the development
of new airways. The CAB was charged with rule making to
enhance safety, accident investigation, and the economic
regulation of the airlines. Then in 1946, Congress gave the
CAA the responsibility of administering the Federal Aid

MacCracken, Jr.

1-5

Airport Program. This program was designed to promote
the establishment of civil airports throughout the country.
The Federal Aviation Act of 1958
By mid-century, air traffic had increased and jet aircraft had
been introduced into the civil aviation arena. A series of
mid-air collisions underlined the need for more regulation
of the aviation industry. Aircraft were not only increasing in
numbers, but were now streaking across the skies at much
higher speeds. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 established
a new independent body that assumed the roles of the CAA
and transferred the rule making authority of the CAB to the
newly created Federal Aviation Agency (FAA). In addition,
the FAA was given complete control of the common civilmilitary system of air navigation and ATC. The man who
was given the honor of being the first Administrator of the
FAA was former Air Force General Elwood Richard “Pete”
Quesada. He served as the administrator from 1959–1961.
[Figure 1-10]
Department of Transportation (DOT)
On October 15, 1966, Congress established the Department
of Transportation (DOT), which was given oversight of the
transportation industry within the United States. The result
was a combination of both air and surface transportation. Its
mission was and is to serve the United States by ensuring a
fast, safe, efficient, accessible, and convenient transportation
system meeting vital national interests and enhancing the
quality of life of the American people, then, now, and into

the future. The DOT began operation on April 1, 1967. At
this same time, the Federal Aviation Agency was renamed
to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
The role of the CAB was assumed by the newly created
National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), which was
charged with the investigation of all transportation accidents
within the United States.
As aviation continued to grow, the FAA took on additional
duties and responsibilities. With the highjacking epidemic
of the 1960s, the FAA was responsible for increasing the
security duties of aviation both on the ground and in the air.
After September 11, 2001, the duties were transferred to
a newly created body called the Department of Homeland
Security (DHS).
With numerous aircraft flying in and out of larger cities, the
FAA began to concentrate on the environmental aspect of
aviation by establishing and regulating the noise standards
of aircraft. Additionally, in the 1960s and 1970s, the FAA
began to regulate high altitude (over 500 feet) kite and balloon
flying. In 1970, more duties were assumed by the FAA in the
addition of a new federal airport aid program and increased
responsibility for airport safety.
ATC Automation
By the mid-1970s, the FAA had achieved a semi-automated
ATC system based on a marriage of radar and computer
technology. By automating certain routine tasks, the system
allowed controllers to concentrate more efficiently on the
vital task of providing aircraft separation. Data appearing
directly on the controllers’ scopes provided the identity,
altitude, and groundspeed of aircraft carrying radar beacons.
Despite its effectiveness, this system required enhancement
to keep pace with the increased air traffic of the late 1970s.
The increase was due in part to the competitive environment
created by the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978. This law
phased out CAB’s economic regulation of the airlines, and
CAB ceased to exist at the end of 1984.
To meet the challenge of traffic growth, the FAA unveiled
the National Airspace System (NAS) Plan in January
1982. The new plan called for more advanced systems
for en route and terminal ATC, modernized flight service
stations, and improvements in ground-to-air surveillance
and communication.

Figure 1-10. First Administrator of the FAA was General Elwood

Richard “Pete” Quesada, 1959–1961.

1-6

The Professional Air Traffic Controllers
Organization (PATCO) Strike
While preparing the NAS Plan, the FAA faced a strike
by key members of its workforce. An earlier period of
discord between management and the Professional Air

Traffic Controllers Organization (PATCO) culminated in a
1970 “sickout” by 3,000 controllers. Although controllers
subsequently gained additional wage and retirement
benefits, another period of tension led to an illegal strike in
August 1981. The government dismissed over 11,000 strike
participants and decertified PATCO. By the spring of 1984,
the FAA ended the last of the special restrictions imposed to
keep the airspace system operating safely during the strike.
The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978
Until 1978, the CAB regulated many areas of commercial
aviation such as fares, routes, and schedules. The Airline
Deregulation Act of 1978, however, removed many of
these controls, thus changing the face of civil aviation in the
United States. After deregulation, unfettered free competition
ushered in a new era in passenger air travel.
The CAB had three main functions: to award routes to
airlines, to limit the entry of air carriers into new markets,
and to regulate fares for passengers. Much of the established
practices of commercial passenger travel within the United
States went back to the policies of Walter Folger Brown, the
United States Postmaster General during the administration
of President Herbert Hoover. Brown had changed the mail
payments system to encourage the manufacture of passenger
aircraft instead of mail-carrying aircraft. His influence
was crucial in awarding contracts and helped create four
major domestic airlines: United, American, Eastern, and
Transcontinental and Western Air (TWA). Similarly,
Brown had also helped give Pan American a monopoly on
international routes.
The push to deregulate, or at least to reform the existing laws
governing passenger carriers, was accelerated by President
Jimmy Carter, who appointed economist and former
professor Alfred Kahn, a vocal supporter of deregulation, to
head the CAB. A second force to deregulate emerged from
abroad. In 1977, Freddie Laker, a British entrepreneur who
owned Laker Airways, created the Skytrain service, which
offered extraordinarily cheap fares for transatlantic flights.
Laker’s offerings coincided with a boom in low-cost domestic
flights as the CAB eased some limitations on charter flights
(i.e., flights offered by companies that do not actually own
planes but leased them from the major airlines). The big air
carriers responded by proposing their own lower fares. For
example, American Airlines, the country’s second largest
airline, obtained CAB approval for “SuperSaver” tickets.
All of these events proved to be favorable for large-scale
deregulation. In November 1977, Congress formally
deregulated air cargo. In late 1978, Congress passed the
Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, legislation that had been
principally authored by Senators Edward Kennedy and

Howard Cannon. [Figure 1-11] There was stiff opposition to
the bill—from the major airlines who feared free competition,
from labor unions who feared non-union employees, and
from safety advocates who feared that safety would be
sacrificed. Public support was, however, strong enough to
pass the act. The act appeased the major airlines by offering
generous subsidies and pleased workers by offering high
unemployment benefits if they lost their jobs as a result. The
most important effect of the act, whose laws were slowly
phased in, was on the passenger market. For the first time
in 40 years, airlines could enter the market or (from 1981)
expand their routes as they saw fit. Airlines (from 1982)
also had full freedom to set their fares. In 1984, the CAB
was finally abolished since its primary duty of regulating the
airline industry was no longer necessary.

The Role of the FAA
The Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
The FAA is empowered by regulations to promote aviation
safety and establish safety standards for civil aviation. The
FAA achieves these objectives under the Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR), which is the codification of the general
and permanent rules published by the executive departments
and agencies of the United States Government. The
regulations are divided into 50 different codes, called Titles,
that represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation.
FAA regulations are listed under Title 14, “Aeronautics and
Space,” which encompasses all aspects of civil aviation from
how to earn a pilot’s certificate to maintenance of an aircraft.
Title 14 CFR Chapter 1, Federal Aviation Administration,
is broken down into subchapters A through N as illustrated
in Figure 1-12.
For the pilot, certain parts of 14 CFR are more relevant
than others. During flight training, it is helpful for the pilot
to become familiar with the parts and subparts that relate

Figure 1-11. President Jimmy Carter signs the Airline Deregulation

Act in late 1978.

1-7

Code of Federal Regulations
Title

Volume

Chapter

Subchapters

Title 14
Aeronautics
and Space

1

I

A
B
C
D
E
F
G

2

3

4

II

III

5

V
VI

H
I
J
K
L–M
N
A
B
C
D
E
F
A
B
C

Definitions and Abbreviations
Procedural Rules
Aircraft
Airmen
Airspace
Air Traffic and General Rules
Air Carriers and Operators for Compensation or Hire: Certification and
Operations
Schools and Other Certified Agencies
Airports
Navigational Facilities
Administrative Regulations
Reserved
War Risk Insurance
Economic Regulations
Procedural Regulations
Reserved
Special Regulations
Organization
Policy Statements
General
Procedure
Licensing

A
B

Office of Management and Budget
Air Transportation Stabilization Board

Figure 1-12. Overview of 14 CFR, available online free from the FAA and for purchase through commercial sources.

to flight training and pilot certification. For instance, 14
CFR part 61 pertains to the certification of pilots, flight
instructors, and ground instructors. It also defines the
eligibility, aeronautical knowledge, and flight proficiency,
as well as training and testing requirements for each type of
pilot certificate issued. 14 CFR part 91 provides guidance in
the areas of general flight rules, visual flight rules (VFR), and
instrument flight rules (IFR), while 14 CFR part 43 covers
aircraft maintenance, preventive maintenance, rebuilding,
and alterations.
Primary Locations of the FAA
The FAA headquarters are in Washington, DC, and there are
nine regional offices strategically located across the United
States. The agency’s two largest field facilities are the Mike
Monroney Aeronautical Center (MMAC) in Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma, and the William J. Hughes Technical
Center (WJHTC) in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Home to
FAA training and logistics services, the MMAC provides
a number of aviation safety-related and business support
services. The WJHTC is the premier aviation research and
development and test and evaluation facility in the country.
The center’s programs include testing and evaluation in ATC,
communication, navigation, airports, aircraft safety, and
security. Furthermore, the WJHTC is active in long-range
1-8

development of innovative aviation systems and concepts,
development of new ATC equipment and software, and
modification of existing systems and procedures.

Field Offices
Flight Standards Service
Within the FAA, the Flight Standards Service promotes safe
air transportation by setting the standards for certification
and oversight of airmen, air operators, air agencies, and
designees. It also promotes safety of flight of civil aircraft
and air commerce by:
•

Accomplishing certification, inspection, surveillance,
investigation, and enforcement.

•

Setting regulations and standards.

•

Managing the system for registration of civil aircraft
and all airmen records.

The focus of interaction between Flight Standards Service
and the aviation community/general public is the Flight
Standards District Office (FSDO).

Flight Standards District Office (FSDO)
The FAA has approximately 80 FSDOs. [Figure 1-13] These
offices provide information and services for the aviation
community. FSDO phone numbers are listed in the telephone
directory under Government Offices, DOT, FAA. Another
convenient method of finding a local office is to use the
FSDO locator available at: www.faa.gov/about/office_org/
field_offices/fsdo.
In addition to accident investigation and the enforcement of
aviation regulations, the FSDO is also responsible for the
certification and surveillance of air carriers, air operators,
flight schools/training centers, and airmen including pilots
and flight instructors. Each FSDO is staffed by Aviation
Safety Inspectors (ASIs) who play a key role in making the
nation’s aviation system safe.
Aviation Safety Inspector (ASI)
The ASIs administer and enforce safety regulations and
standards for the production, operation, maintenance, and/
or modification of aircraft used in civil aviation. They also
specialize in conducting inspections of various aspects of the
aviation system, such as aircraft and parts manufacturing,
aircraft operation, aircraft airworthiness, and cabin safety.
ASIs must complete a training program at the FAA Academy
in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, which includes airman
evaluation and pilot testing techniques and procedures. ASIs
also receive extensive on-the-job training and recurrent
training on a regular basis. The FAA has approximately
3,700 inspectors located in its FSDO offices. All questions
concerning pilot certification (and/or requests for other
aviation information or services) should be directed to the
local FSDO.
FAA Safety Team (FAASTeam)
The FAA is dedicated to improving the safety of United
States civilian aviation by conveying safety principles and
practices through training, outreach, and education. The FAA

Safety Team (FAASTeam) exemplifies this commitment.
The FAASTeam has replaced the Aviation Safety Program
(ASP), whose education of airmen on all types of safety
subjects successfully reduced accidents. Its success led to
its demise because the easy-to-fix accident causes have been
addressed. To take aviation safety one step further, Flight
Standards Service created the FAASTeam, which is devoted
to reducing aircraft accidents by using a coordinated effort
to focus resources on elusive accident causes.
Each of the FAA’s nine regions has a Regional FAASTeam
Office dedicated to this new safety program and managed by
the Regional FAASTeam Manager (RFM). The FAASTeam
is “teaming” up with individuals and the aviation industry
to create a unified effort against accidents and tip the safety
culture in the right direction. To learn more about this effort
to improve aviation safety, to take a course at their online
learning center, or to join the FAASTeam, visit their website
at www.faasafety.gov.
Obtaining Assistance from the FAA
Information can be obtained from the FAA by phone,
Internet/e-mail, or mail. To talk to the FAA toll-free 24
hours a day, call 1-866-TELL-FAA (1-866-835-5322). To
visit the FAA’s website, go to www.faa.gov. Individuals can
also e-mail an FAA representative at a local FSDO office by
accessing the staff e-mail address available via the “Contact
FAA” link at the bottom of the FAA home page. Letters can
be sent to:
Federal Aviation Administration
800 Independence Ave, SW
Washington, DC 20591
FAA Reference Material
The FAA provides a variety of important reference material
for the student, as well as the advanced civil aviation pilot.
In addition to the regulations provided online by the FAA,
several other publications are available to the user. Almost
all reference material is available online at www.faa.gov in
downloadable format. Commercial aviation publishers also
provide published and online reference material to further
aid the aviation pilot.

Aeronautical Information Manual (AIM)

Figure 1-13. Atlanta Flight Standards District Office (FSDO).

The Aeronautical Information Manual (AIM) is the official
guide to basic flight information and ATC procedures for the
aviation community flying in the NAS of the United States.
[Figure 1-14] An international version, containing parallel
information as well as specific information on international
airports, is also available. The AIM also contains information
of interest to pilots, such as health and medical facts, flight

1-9

Aeronautical Information Manual (AIM)
The Aeronautical Information Manual is designed to provide
the aviation community with basic flight information and
ATC procedures for use in the NAS of the United States. It
also contains the fundamentals required in order to fly in the
United States NAS, including items of interest to pilots
concerning health/medical facts, factors affecting flight
safety, etc.
Aircraft Flying Handbooks (by category)
The Aircraft Flying Handbooks are designed as technical
manuals to introduce basic pilot skills and knowledge that
are essential for piloting aircraft. They provide information
on transition to other aircraft and the operation of various
aircraft systems.
Aviation Instructor’s Handbook

Figure 1-14. Aeronautical Information Manual.

safety, a pilot/controller glossary of terms used in the
system, and information on safety, accidents, and reporting
of hazards. This manual is offered for sale on a subscription
basis or is available online at: http://bookstore.gpo.gov.
Order forms are provided at the beginning of the manual or
online and should be sent to the Superintendent of Documents,
United States Government Printing Office (GPO). The AIM
is complemented by other operational publications that are
available via separate subscriptions or online.

The Aviation Instructor’s Handbook provides the foundation
for beginning instructors to understand and apply the
fundamentals of instructing. This handbook also provides
aviation instructors with up-to-date information on learning
and teaching, and how to relate this information to the task
of conveying aeronautical knowledge and skills to students.
Experienced aviation instructors also find the new and
updated information useful for improving their effectiveness
in training activities.
Instrument Flying Handbook
The Instrument Flying Handbook is designed for use by
instrument flight instructors and pilots preparing for
instrument rating tests. Instructors find this handbook a
valuable training aid as it includes basic reference material
for knowledge testing and instrument flight training.
Instrument Procedures Handbook
The Instrument Procedures Handbook is designed as a
technical reference for professional pilots who operate
under IFR in the NAS and expands on information contained
in the Instrument Flying Handbook.

Handbooks
Handbooks are developed to provide specific information
about a particular topic that enhances training or understanding.
The FAA publishes a variety of handbooks that generally fall
into three categories: aircraft, aviation, and examiners and
inspectors. [Figure 1-15] These handbooks can be purchased
from the Superintendent of Documents or downloaded at www.
faa.gov/regulations_policies. Aviation handbooks are also
published by various commercial aviation companies. Aircraft
flight manuals commonly called Pilot Operating Handbooks
(POH) are documents developed by the airplane manufacturer,
approved by the FAA, and are specific to a particular make
and model aircraft by serial number. This subject is covered
in greater detail in Chapter 8, “Flight Manuals and Other
Documents,” of this handbook. [Figure 1-16]

Advisory Circulars (ACs)
An AC is an informational document that the FAA wants to
distribute to the aviation community. This can be in the form

1-10

Figure 1-15. A sample of handbooks available to the public. Most

can be downloaded free of charge from the FAA website.

of a text book used in a classroom or a one page document.
Some ACs are free while others cost money. They are to
be used for information only and are not regulations. The
FAA website www.faa.gov/regulations_policies/advisory_
circulars/ provides a database that is a searchable repository
of all aviation safety ACs. All ACs, current and historical,
are provided and can be viewed as a portable document
format (PDF) copy.
ACs provide a single, uniform, agency-wide system that the
FAA uses to deliver advisory material to FAA customers,
industry, the aviation community, and the public. An AC
may be needed to:
•

Provide an acceptable, clearly understood method for
complying with a regulation

Figure 1-16. Pilot Operating Handbooks from manufacturers.

•

Standardize implementation of a regulation or
harmonize implementation for the international
aviation community

•

Resolve a general misunderstanding of a regulation

•

Respond to a request from some government entity,
such as General Accounting Office, NTSB, or the
Office of the Inspector General

•

Help the industry and FAA effectively implement a
regulation

•

Explain requirements and limits of an FAA grant
program

•

Expand on standards needed to promote aviation
safety, including the safe operation of airports

There are three parts to an AC number, as in 25-42C. The
first part of the number identifies the subject matter area
of the AC and corresponds to the appropriate 14 CFR part.
For example, an AC on “Certification: Pilots and Flight and
Ground Instructors” is numbered as AC 61-65E. Since ACs
are numbered sequentially within each subject area, the
second part of the number beginning with the dash identifies
this sequence. The third part of the number is a letter assigned
by the originating office and shows the revision sequence if
an AC is revised. The first version of an AC does not have
a revision letter. In Figure 1-17, this is the fifth revision, as
designated by the “E.”

Flight Publications
The FAA, in concert with other government agencies,
orchestrates the publication and changes to publications
that are key to safe flight. Figure 1-18 illustrates some
publications a pilot may use.

Figure 1-17. Example of an Advisory Circular in its fifth revision.

1-11

NEVADA

245

ALAMO LANDING FLD
(L92)

2W
UTC 8( 7DT)
N37 °21.75 W115°11.67
LAS VEGAS
3719
NOTAM FILE RNO
RWY 14–32:5000X120 (DIRT)
RWY 14:Brush.
RWY 32:Berm.
RWY 15–33:2500X70 (DIRT)
RWY 15:Berm.
RWY 33:Berm.
AIRPORT REMARKS:
Unattended. Uncontrolled vehicle access. No line of sight between rwy ends. Rwys 15–33 and Rwy
14–32 livestock in vicinity of rwys.
COMMUNICATIONS: CTAF
122.9

AUSTIN (TMT)

4 SW UTC 8( 7DT) N39 °28.08 W117°11.72
LAS VEGAS
5735
B NOTAM FILE RNO
H–3C, L–9B
RWY 18–36:H6000X75 (ASPH) S–30 MIRL
RWY 36:REIL. PAPI(P2L)—GA 3.0 ° TCH 40 . Fence.
RWY 18:REIL. PAPI(P2L)—GA 3.0 ° TCH 40 .
AIRPORT REMARKS:
Unattended. Military acft opr in vicinity of arpt. ACTIVATE MIRL Rwy 18–36, PAPI Rwys 18 and 36,
REIL Rwy 18 and 36—CTAF.
WEATHER DATA SOURCES:
AWOS–3PT 132.925 (775) 964–1144.
COMMUNICATIONS: CTAF
122.9
RADIO AIDS TO NAVIGATION:
NOTAM FILE RNO.
019° 66.7 NM to fld. 7860/17E.
MINA (H) VORTAC
115.1 MVA Chan 98 N38 °33.92 W118°01.97
HIWAS.

BATTLE MOUNTAIN
(BAM)

3 SE
UTC 8( 7DT)
N40 °35.94 W116°52.46
4536 B S4
FUEL 100LL, JET A NOTAM FILE RNO
RWY 12–30:H7302X150 (ASPH) S–30, D–104, 2S–132 MIRL
RWY 03–21:H7299X150 (ASPH) S–30, D–125, 2S–159 MIRL
RWY 03:VASI(V2R)—GA 3.0 ° TCH 26 .
RWY 21:PAPI(P4L)—GA 3.0 ° TCH 45 .
AIRPORT REMARKS:
Attended Oct–May 1500–0100Z ‡, Jun–Sep
1500–0200Z‡. After hrs call 775–635–2245. ACTIVATE MIRL Rwy
03–21 and Rwy 12–30, and perimeter lgts H1—CTAF.
WEATHER DATA SOURCES:
AWOS–3 119.45 (775) 635–8419.
COMMUNICATIONS: CTAF/UNICOM
122.8
MT LEWIS RCO
122.65 (RENO RADIO)
SALT LAKE CENTER APP/DEP CON
132.25
RADIO AIDS TO NAVIGATION:
NOTAM FILE RNO.
(H) VORTACW
112.2 BAM Chan 59 N40 °34.15
W116°55.34
033° 2.8 NM to fld. 4536/18E.
VORTAC unusable:
050°–060° byd 30 NM blo 12,000
115°–165° byd 15 NM blo 12,000
255°–290° byd 15 NM blo 12,000
DME unusable 246 °–255° byd 34 NM blo 14,000

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

SALT LAKE CITY
H–3C, L–9B, 11B
IAP

•

HELIPAD H1:
H60X60 (CONC)
HELIPAD H2:
H60X60 (CONC)
HELIPORT REMARKS:
Rwy H1 perimeter lights. ACTIVATE MIRL Rwy 03–21 and Rwy 12–30, and perimeter lgts
H1—CTAF.

,

Figure 1-18. From left to right, a sectional VFR chart, IFR chart, and chart supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility Directory) with

a sample of a page from the supplement.

Pilot and Aeronautical Information

•

Notification of an operationally significant change in
volcanic ash or other dust contamination (an ASHTAM)

•

Software code risk announcements with associated
patches to reduce specific vulnerabilities

Notices to Airmen (NOTAMs)
Notices to Airmen, or NOTAMs, are time-critical aeronautical
information either temporary in nature or not sufficiently
known in advance to permit publication on aeronautical
charts or in other operational publications. The information
receives immediate dissemination via the National Notice to
Airmen (NOTAM) System. NOTAMs contain current notices
to airmen that are considered essential to the safety of flight,
as well as supplemental data affecting other operational
publications. There are many different reasons that NOTAMs
are issued. Following are some of those reasons:
•

Hazards, such as air shows, parachute jumps, kite
flying, and rocket launches

•

Flights by important people such as heads of state

•

Closed runways

•

Inoperable radio navigational aids

•

Military exercises with resulting airspace restrictions

•

Inoperable lights on tall obstructions

•

Temporary erection of obstacles near airfields

•

Passage of flocks of birds through airspace (a NOTAM
in this category is known as a BIRDTAM)

•

Notifications of runway/taxiway/apron status with
respect to snow, ice, and standing water (a SNOWTAM)

1-12

NOTAM information is generally classified into four
categories: NOTAM (D) or NOTAMs that receive distant
dissemination, distant and Flight Data Center (FDC)
NOTAMs, Pointer NOTAMs, and Military NOTAMs
pertaining to military airports or NAVAIDs that are part of the
NAS. NOTAMs are available through Flight Service Station
(FSS), Direct User Access Terminal Service (DUATS),
private vendors, and many online websites.
NOTAM (D) Information
NOTAM (D) information is disseminated for all navigational
facilities that are part of the NAS, and all public use airports,
seaplane bases, and heliports listed in the Chart Supplement
U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility Directory). NOTAM (D)
information now includes such data as taxiway closures,
personnel and equipment near or crossing runways, and
airport lighting aids that do not affect instrument approach
criteria, such as visual approach slope indicator (VASI).
All D NOTAMs are required to have one of the following
keywords as the first part of the text: RWY, TWY, RAMP,
APRON, AD, OBST, NAV, COM, SVC, AIRSPACE, (U),
or (O). [Figure 1-19]

FDC NOTAMs
FDC NOTAMs are issued by the National Flight Data
Center and contain information that is regulatory in nature
pertaining to flight including, but not limited to, changes
to charts, procedures, and airspace usage. FDC NOTAMs
refer to information that is regulatory in nature and includes
the following:
•

•

•

Flight restrictions in the proximity of the President
and other parties

•

14 CFR part 139 certificated airport condition changes

•

Snow conditions affecting glide slope operation

•

Air defense emergencies

•

Emergency flight rules

Interim IFR flight procedures:

•

Substitute airway routes

1.

Airway structure changes

•

Special data

2.

Instrument approach procedure changes (excludes
Departure Procedures (DPs) and Standard
Terminal Arrivals (STARs)

•

U.S. Government charting corrections

•

Laser activity

3.

Airspace changes in general

4.

Special instrument approach procedure changes

Temporary flight restrictions (discussed in Chapter 15):

NOTAM Composition
NOTAMs contain the elements below from left to right in
the following order:

1.

Disaster areas

•

An exclamation point (!)

2.

Special events generating a high degree of interest

•

3.

Hijacking

Accountability Location (the identifier of the
accountability location)

Keyword

Example

Meaning

RWY
TWY
RAMP

RWY 3/21 CLSD
TWY F LGTS OTS
RAMP TERMINAL EAST SIDE
CONSTRUCTION
APRON SW TWY C NEAR
HANGARS CLSD
AD ABN OTS
OBST TOWER 283 (245 AGL) 2.2
S LGTS OTS (ASR 1065881) TIL
0707272300

Runways 3 and 21 are closed to aircraft.
Taxiway F lights are out of service.
The ramp in front of the east side of the terminal has ongoing
construction.
The apron near the southwest taxiway C in front of the hangars
is closed.
Aerodromes: The airport beacon is out of service.
Obstruction: The lights are out of service on a tower that is 283 feet
above mean sea level (MSL) or 245 feet above ground level (AGL)
2.2 statute miles south of the field. The FCC antenna structure
registration (ASR) number is 1065881. The lights will be returned to
service 2300 UTC (Coordinated Universal Time) on July 27, 2007.
Navigation: The VOR located on this airport is out of service.
Communications: The Automatic Terminal information Service
(ATIS) is out of service.
Service: The control tower has new operating hours, 1215-0330
UTC Monday Thru Friday. 1430-2300 UTC on Saturday and
1600-0100 UTC on Sunday until 0100 on July 30, 2007.
Service: All fuel for this airport is unavailable until July 29, 2007,
at 1600 UTC.
Service: United States Customs service for this airport will not be
available until August 15, 2007, at 0800 UTC.
Airspace. There is an airshow being held at this airport with aircraft
flying 5,000 feet and below within a 5 nautical mile radius.
Avoidance is advised from 2000 UTC on July 15, 2007, until 2200
on July 15, 2007.
Unverified aeronautical information.
Other aeronautical information received from any authorized source
that may be beneficial to aircraft operations and does not meet
defined NOTAM criteria.

APRON
AD
OBST

NAV
COM

NAV VOR OTS
COM ATIS OTS

SVC

SVC TWR 1215-0330
MON -FRI/1430-2300 SAT/1600-0100
SUN TIL 0707300100
SVC FUEL UNAVBL TIL 0707291600
SVC CUSTOMS UNAVBL TIL 0708150800

AIRSPACE

U
O

AIRSPACE AIRSHOW ACFT
5000/BLW 5 NMR AIRPORT
AVOIDANCE ADZD WEF
0707152000-0707152200
ORT 6K8 (U) RWY ABANDONED VEHICLE
LOZ LOZ (O) CONTROLLED BURN OF
HOUSE 8 NE APCH END RWY 23 WEF
0710211300-0710211700

Figure 1-19. NOTAM (D) Information.

1-13

•

Affected Location (the identifier of the affected facility
or location)

•

KEYWORD (one of the following: RWY, TWY,
RAMP, APRON, AD, COM, NAV, SVC, OBST,
AIRSPACE, (U) and (O))

•

Surface Identification (optional—this shall be the
runway identification for runway related NOTAMs,
the taxiway identification for taxiway-related
NOTAMs, or the ramp/apron identification for ramp/
apron-related NOTAMs)

•

Condition (the condition being reported)

•

Time (identifies the effective time(s) of the NOTAM
condition)

Altitude and height are in feet mean sea level (MSL) up to
17,999; e.g., 275, 1225 (feet and MSL is not written), and in
flight levels (FL) for 18,000 and above; e.g., FL180, FL550.
When MSL is not known, above ground level (AGL) will be
written (304 AGL).
When time is expressed in a NOTAM, the day begins at 0000
and ends at 2359. Times used in the NOTAM system are
universal time coordinated (UTC) and shall be stated in 10
digits (year, month, day, hour, and minute). The following
are two examples of how the time would be presented:
!DCA LDN NAV VOR OTS WEF
0708051600-0708052359
!DCA LDN NAV VOR OTS WEF
0709050000-0709050400
NOTAM Dissemination and Availability
The system for disseminating aeronautical information is
made up of two subsystems: the Airmen's Information System
(AIS) and the NOTAM System. The AIS consists of charts and
publications and is disseminated by the following methods:
Aeronautical charts depicting permanent baseline data:
•

IFR Charts—Enroute High Altitude Conterminous U.S.,
Enroute Low Altitude Conterminous U.S., Alaska
Charts, and Pacific Charts

•

U.S. Terminal Procedures—Departure Procedures
(DPs), Standard Terminal Arrivals (STARs) and
Standard Instrument Approach Procedures (SIAPs)

•

VFR Charts—Sectional Aeronautical Charts, Terminal
Area Charts (TAC), and World Aeronautical Charts
(WAC)

1-14

Flight information publications outlining baseline data:
•

Notices to Airmen (NTAP)—Published by System
Operations Services, System Operations and Safety,
Publications, every 28 days)

•

Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility
Directory)

•

Pacific Chart Supplement

•

Alaska Supplement

•

Alaska Terminal

•

Aeronautical Information Manual (AIM)

NOTAMs are available in printed form through subscription
from the Superintendent of Documents, from an FSS, or
online at PilotWeb (www.pilotweb.nas.faa.gov), which
provides access to current NOTAM information. Local
airport NOTAMs can be obtained online from various
websites. Some examples are www.fltplan.com and www.
aopa.org/whatsnew/notams.html. Most sites require a free
registration and acceptance of terms but offer pilots updated
NOTAMs and TFRs.

Safety Program Airmen Notification System (SPANS)
In 2004, the FAA launched the Safety Program Airmen
Notification System (SPANS), an online event notification
system that provides timely and easy-to-assess seminar
and event information notification for airmen. The SPANS
system is taking the place of the current paper-based mail
system. This provides better service to airmen while reducing
costs for the FAA. Anyone can search the SPANS system
and register for events. To read more about SPANS, visit
www.faasafety.gov/spans.

Aircraft Classifications and Ultralight
Vehicles
The FAA uses various ways to classify or group machines
operated or flown in the air. The most general grouping uses
the term aircraft. This term is in 14 CFR 1.1 and means a
device that is used or intended to be used for flight in the air.
Ultralight vehicle is another general term the FAA uses.
This term is defined in 14 CFR 103. As the term implies,
powered ultralight vehicles must weigh less than 254 pounds
empty weight and unpowered ultralight vehicles must
weigh less than 155 pounds. Rules for ultralight vehicles
are significantly different from rules for aircraft; ultralight
vehicle certification, registration, and operation rules are also
contained in 14 CFR 103.

The FAA differentiates aircraft by their characteristics and
physical properties. Key groupings defined in 14 CFR 1.1
include:
•

Airplane—an engine-driven fixed-wing aircraft
heavier than air, that is supported in flight by the
dynamic reaction of the air against its wings.

•

Glider—a heavier-than-air aircraft, that is supported
in flight by the dynamic reaction of the air against its
lifting surfaces and whose free flight does not depend
principally on an engine.

•

•

•

•

•

Size and weight are other methods used in 14 CFR 1.1 to
group aircraft:
•

Large aircraft—an aircraft of more than 12,500
pounds, maximum certificated takeoff weight.

•

Light-sport aircraft (LSA)—an aircraft, other than
a helicopter or powered-lift that, since its original
certification, has continued to meet the definition in
14 CFR 1.1. (LSA can include airplanes, airships,
balloons, gliders, gyro planes, powered parachutes,
and weight-shift-control.)

•

Small Aircraft—aircraft of 12,500 pounds or less,
maximum certificated takeoff weight.

Lighter-than-air aircraft—an aircraft that can rise and
remain suspended by using contained gas weighing
less than the air that is displaced by the gas.
-

Airship—an engine-driven lighter-than-air
aircraft that can be steered.

-

Balloon—a lighter-than-air aircraft that is not
engine driven, and that sustains flight through the
use of either gas buoyancy or an airborne heater.

Powered-lift—a heavier-than-air aircraft capable of
vertical takeoff, vertical landing, and low speed flight
that depends principally on engine-driven lift devices
or engine thrust for lift during these flight regimes and
on nonrotating airfoil(s) for lift during horizontal flight.

We also use broad classifications of aircraft with respect to
the certification of airmen or with respect to the certification
of the aircraft themselves. See the next section, Pilot
Certifications, and Chapter 3, for further discussion of
certification. These definitions are in 14 CFR 1.1:
•

Powered parachute—a powered aircraft comprised of
a flexible or semi-rigid wing connected to a fuselage
so that the wing is not in position for flight until
the aircraft is in motion. The fuselage of a powered
parachute contains the aircraft engine, a seat for each
occupant and Is attached to the aircraft's landing gear.
Rocket—an aircraft propelled by ejected expanding
gases generated in the engine from self-contained
propellants and not dependent on the intake of outside
substances. It includes any part which becomes
separated during the operation.

•

Rotorcraft—a heavier-than-air aircraft that depends
principally for its support in flight on the lift generated
by one or more rotors.
-

-

•

center of gravity with respect to the wing. Flight control
of the aircraft depends on the wing's ability to flexibly
deform rather than the use of control surfaces.

Gyroplane—a rotorcraft whose rotors are not
engine-driven, except for Initial starting, but
are made to rotate by action of the air when
the rotorcraft Is moving; and whose means of
propulsion, consisting usually of conventional
propellers, is Independent of the rotor system.
Helicopter—a rotorcraft that, for its horizontal
motion, depends principally on its engine-driven
rotors.

Weight-shift-control—a powered aircraft with a framed
pivoting wing and a fuselage controllable only in pitch
and roll by the pilot's ability to change the aircraft’s

•

Category
1.

As used with respect to the certification, ratings,
privileges, and limitations of airmen, means a
broad classification of aircraft. Examples include:
airplane; rotorcraft; glider; and lighter-than-air;
and

2.

As used with respect to the certification of
aircraft, means a grouping of aircraft based upon
intended use or operating limitations. Examples
include: transport, normal, utility, acrobatic,
limited, restricted, and provisional.

Class
1.

As used with respect to the certification, ratings,
privileges, and limitations of airmen, means a
classification of aircraft within a category having
similar operating characteristics. Examples
Include: single engine; multiengine; land; water;
gyroplane, helicopter, airship, and free balloon;
and

2.

As used with respect to the certification of
aircraft, means a broad grouping of aircraft having
similar characteristics of propulsion, flight, or
landing. Examples include: airplane, rotorcraft,
gilder, balloon, landplane, and seaplane.

Type
1.

As used with respect to the certification, ratings,
privileges, and limitations of airmen, means
1-15

a specific make and basic model of aircraft,
Including modifications thereto that do not
change its handling or flight characteristics.
Examples include: 737-700, G-IV, and 1900; and
2.

•

Privileges—define where and when the pilot may fly,
with whom they may fly, the purpose of the flight, and
the type of aircraft they are allowed to fly.

•

Limitations—the FAA may impose limitations on a
pilot certificate if, during training or the practical test,
the pilot does not demonstrate all skills necessary to
exercise all privileges of a privilege level, category,
class, or type rating.

As used with respect to the certification of
aircraft, means those aircraft which are similar
in design. Examples include: 737-700 and 737700C; G-IV and G-IV-X; and 1900 and 1900C.

This system of definitions allows the FAA to group and
regulate aircraft to provide for their safe operation.

Pilot Certifications
The type of intended flying influences what type of pilot’s
certificate is required. Eligibility, training, experience,
and testing requirements differ depending on the type of
certificates sought. [Figure 1-20] Each type of pilot’s
certificate has privileges and limitations that are inherent
within the certificate itself. However, other privileges and
limitations may be applicable based on the aircraft type,
operation being conducted, and the type of certificate.
For example, a certain certificate may have privileges and
limitations under 14 CFR part 61 and part 91.

Endorsements, a form of authorization, are written to establish
that the certificate holder has received training in specific skill
areas. Endorsements are written and signed by an authorized
individual, usually a certificated flight instructor (CFI), and
are based on aircraft classification. [Figure 1-21]
Sport Pilot
To become a sport pilot, the student pilot is required to have
flown, at a minimum, the following hours depending upon
the aircraft:
•

Airplane: 20 hours

•

Powered Parachute: 12 hours

•

Weight-Shift Control (Trikes): 20 hours

•

Glider: 10 hours

•

Rotorcraft (gyroplane only): 20 hours

•

Lighter-Than-Air: 20 hours (airship) or 7 hours
(balloon)

To earn a Sport Pilot Certificate, one must:
•

Be at least 16 years old to become a student sport pilot
(14 years old for gliders or balloons)

•

Be at least 17 years old to test for a sport pilot
certificate (16 years old for gliders or balloons)

•

Be able to read, write, and understand the English
language

•

Hold a current and valid driver’s license as evidence
of medical eligibility

When operating as a sport pilot, some of the following
privileges and limitations may apply.

Privileges:

Figure 1-20. Front side (top) and back side (bottom) of an airman

certificate issued by the FAA.

1-16

•

Operate as pilot in command (PIC) of a light-sport
aircraft

•

Carry a passenger and share expenses (fuel, oil, airport
expenses, and aircraft rental)

•

Fly during the daytime using VFR, a minimum of
3 statute miles visibility and visual contact with the
ground are required

Recreational pilot to conduct solo flights for the purpose of obtaining an additional certificate or rating while under
the supervision of an authorized flight instructor: section 61.101(i).
I certify that (First name, MI, Last name) has received the required training of section 61.87 in a (make and model
aircraft). I have determined he/she is prepared to conduct a solo flight on (date) under the following conditions: (List
all conditions which require endorsement, e.g., flight which requires communication with air traffic control, flight in an
aircraft for which the pilot does not hold a category/class rating, etc.).

Figure 1-21. Example endorsement for a recreational pilot to conduct solo flights for the purpose of determining an additional certificate

or rating.

Limitations:
•

Prohibited from flying in Class A airspace

•

Prohibited from flying in Class B, C, or D airspace
until you receive training and a logbook endorsement
from an instructor

•

No flights outside the United States without prior
permission from the foreign aviation authority

•

May not tow any object

•

No flights while carrying a passenger or property for
compensation or hire

•

Prohibited from flying in furtherance of a business

The sport pilot certificate does not list aircraft category
and class ratings. After successfully passing the practical
test for a sport pilot certificate, regardless of the light-sport
aircraft privileges you seek, the FAA will issue you a sport
pilot certificate without any category and class ratings. The
Instructor will provide you with the appropriate logbook
endorsement for the category and class of aircraft in which
you are authorized to act as pilot in command.
Recreational Pilot
To become a recreational pilot, one must:
•

Be at least 17 years old

•

Be able to read, write, speak, and understand the
English language

•

Pass the required knowledge test

•

Meet the aeronautical experience requirements in
either a single-engine airplane, a helicopter, or a
gyroplane.

•

Obtain a logbook endorsement from an instructor

•

Pass the required practical test

•

Obtain a third-class medical certificate issued under
14 CFR part 67

As a recreational pilot, cross-country flight is limited to a 50
NM range from the departure airport but is permitted with
additional training per 14 CFR part 61, section 61.101(c).
Additionally, recreational pilots are restricted from flying
at night and flying in airspace where communications with
ATC are required.
The minimum aeronautical experience requirements for a
recreational pilot license involve:
•

30 hours of flight time including at least:
•

15 hours of dual instruction

•

2 hours of en route training

•

3 hours in preparation for the practical test

•

3 hours of solo flight

When operating as a recreational pilot, some of the following
privileges and limitations may apply.

Privileges:
•

Carry no more than one passenger;

•

Not pay less than the pro rata share of the operating
expenses of a flight with a passenger, provided the
expenses involve only fuel, oil, airport expenses, or
aircraft rental fees

Limitations:
•

A recreational pilot may not act as PIC of an aircraft
that is certificated for more than four occupants or has
more than one powerplant.

Private Pilot
A private pilot is one who flies for pleasure or personal
business without accepting compensation for flying except
in some very limited, specific circumstances. The Private
Pilot Certificate is the certificate held by the majority of

1-17

active pilots. It allows command of any aircraft (subject
to appropriate ratings) for any noncommercial purpose
and gives almost unlimited authority to fly under VFR.
Passengers may be carried and flight in furtherance of a
business is permitted; however, a private pilot may not be
compensated in any way for services as a pilot, although
passengers can pay a pro rata share of flight expenses, such
as fuel or rental costs. If training under 14 CFR part 61,
experience requirements include at least 40 hours of piloting
time, including 20 hours of flight with an instructor and 10
hours of solo flight. [Figure 1-22]
Commercial Pilot
A commercial pilot may be compensated for flying. Training
for the certificate focuses on a better understanding of
aircraft systems and a higher standard of airmanship. The
Commercial Pilot Certificate itself does not allow a pilot
to fly in instrument meteorological conditions (IMC), and
commercial pilots without an instrument rating are restricted
to daytime flight within 50 NM when flying for hire.
A commercial airplane pilot must be able to operate
a complex airplane, as a specific number of hours of
complex (or turbine-powered) aircraft time are among
the prerequisites, and at least a portion of the practical
examination is performed in a complex aircraft. A complex
aircraft must have retractable landing gear, movable flaps,
and a controllable-pitch propeller. See 14 CFR part 61,
section 61.31(e) for additional information. [Figure 1-23]

Figure 1-23. A complex aircraft.

and understand the English language, and be “of good moral
standing.” A pilot may obtain an ATP certificate with restricted
privileges enabling him/her to serve as an SIC in scheduled
airline operations. The minimum pilot experience is reduced
based upon specific academic and flight training experience.
The minimum age to be eligible is 21 years. [Figure 1-24]

Selecting a Flight School

Airline Transport Pilot
The airline transport pilot (ATP) is tested to the highest level
of piloting ability. The ATP certificate is a prerequisite for
serving as a PIC and second in command (SIC) of scheduled
airline operations. It is also a prerequisite for serving as a PIC
in select charter and fractional operations. The minimum pilot
experience is 1,500 hours of flight time. In addition, the pilot
must be at least 23 years of age, be able to read, write, speak,

Selecting a flight school is an important consideration in
the flight training process. FAA-approved training centers,
FAA-approved pilot schools, noncertificated flying schools,
and independent flight instructors conduct flight training in
the United States. All flight training is conducted under the
auspices of the FAA following the regulations outlined in
14 CFR parts 142, 141, or 61. Training centers, also referred
to as flight academies, operate under 14 CFR part 142 and
are certificated by the FAA. Application for certification
is voluntary and the training center must meet stringent
requirements for personnel, equipment, maintenance,
facilities, and must teach a curriculum approved by the
FAA. Training centers typically utilize a number of flight
simulation training devices as part of its curricula. Flight
training conducted at a training center is primarily done
under contract to airlines and other commercial operators
in transport or turbine aircraft, however many also provide

Figure 1-22. A typical aircraft a private pilot might fly.

Figure 1-24. Type of aircraft flown by an airline transport pilot.

1-18

flight training for the private pilot certificate, commercial
pilot certificate, instrument rating, and ATP certificate.
Flight schools operating under 14 CFR part 141 are
certificated by the FAA. Application for certification is
voluntary and the school must meet stringent requirements
for personnel, equipment, maintenance, facilities, and must
teach an established curriculum, which includes a training
course outline (TCO) approved by the FAA. The certificated
schools may qualify for a ground school rating and a flight
school rating. In addition, the school may be authorized
to give its graduates practical (flight) tests and knowledge
(computer administered written) tests. The FAA Pilot School
Search database located at http://av-info.faa.gov/PilotSchool.
asp, lists certificated ground and flight schools and the pilot
training courses each school offers.
Enrollment in a 14 CFR part 141 flight school ensures
quality, continuity, and offers a structured approach to flight
training because these facilities must document the training
curriculum and have their flight courses approved by the
FAA. These strictures allow 14 CFR part 141 schools to
complete certificates and ratings in fewer flight hours, which
can mean a savings on the cost of flight training for the
student pilot. For example, the minimum requirement for a
Private Pilot Certificate is 35 hours in a part 141-certificated
school and 40 hours in a part 61-certificated school. (This
difference may be insignificant for a Private Pilot Certificate
because the national average indicates most pilots require 60
to 75 hours of flight training.)
Many excellent flight schools find it impractical to qualify
for the FAA part 141 certificates and are referred to as part
61 schools. 14 CFR part 61 outlines certificate and rating
requirements for pilot certification through noncertificated
schools and individual flight instructors. It also states what
knowledge-based training must be covered and how much
flight experience is required for each certificate and rating.
Flight schools and flight instructors who train must adhere
to the statutory requirements and train pilots to the standards
found in 14 CFR part 61.
One advantage of flight training under 14 CFR part 61 is its
flexibility. Flight lessons can be tailored to the individual
student, because 14 CFR part 61 dictates the required
minimum flight experience and knowledge-based training
necessary to gain a specific pilot’s license, but it does not
stipulate how the training is to be organized. This flexibility
can also be a disadvantage because a flight instructor who
fails to organize the flight training can cost a student pilot
time and expense through repetitious training. One way for
a student pilot to avoid this problem is to ensure the flight
instructor has a well-documented training syllabus.

How To Find a Reputable Flight Program
To obtain information about pilot training, contact the local
FSDO, which maintains a current file on all schools within its
district. The choice of a flight school depends on what type of
certificate is sought, and whether an individual wishes to fly
as a sport pilot or wishes to pursue a career as a professional
pilot. Another consideration is the amount of time that can
be devoted to training. Ground and flight training should
be obtained as regularly and frequently as possible because
this assures maximum retention of instruction and the
achievement of requisite proficiency.
Do not make the determination based on financial concerns
alone, because the quality of training is very important.
Prior to making a final decision, visit the schools under
consideration and talk with management, instructors, and
students. Request a personal tour of the flight school facility.
Be inquisitive and proactive when searching for a flight
school, do some homework, and develop a checklist of
questions by talking to pilots and reading articles in flight
magazines. The checklist should include questions about
aircraft reliability and maintenance practices, and questions
for current students such as whether or not there is a safe,
clean aircraft available when they are scheduled to fly.
Questions for the training facility should be aimed at
determining if the instruction fits available personal time.
What are the school’s operating hours? Does the facility have
dedicated classrooms available for ground training required
by the FAA? Is there an area available for preflight briefings,
postflight debriefings, and critiques? Are these rooms private
in nature in order to provide a nonthreatening environment
in which the instructor can explain the content and outcome
of the flight without making the student feel self-conscious?
Examine the facility before committing to any flight training.
Evaluate the answers on the checklist, and then take time to
think things over before making a decision. This proactive
approach to choosing a flight school will ensure a student
pilot contracts with a flight school or flight instructor best
suited to their individual needs.
How To Choose a Certificated Flight Instructor (CFI)
Whether an individual chooses to train under 14 CFR part
141 or part 61, the key to an effective flight program is the
quality of the ground and flight training received from the
CFI. The flight instructor assumes total responsibility for
training an individual to meet the standards required for
certification within an ever-changing operating environment.
A CFI should possess an understanding of the learning
process, knowledge of the fundamentals of teaching, and

1-19

the ability to communicate effectively with the student pilot.
During the certification process, a flight instructor applicant
is tested on the practical application of these skills in specific
teaching situations. The flight instructor is crucial to the
scenario-based training program endorsed by the FAA. He
or she is trained to function in the learning environment as an
advisor and guide for the learner. The duties, responsibilities,
and authority of the CFI include the following:
•

Orient the student to the scenario-based training
system

•

Help the student become a confident planner and
inflight manager of each flight and a critical evaluator
of their own performance

•

Help the student understand the knowledge
requirements present in real world applications

•

Diagnose learning difficulties and help the student
overcome them

•

Evaluate student progress and maintain appropriate
records

•

Provide continuous review of student learning

Should a student pilot find the selected CFI is not training in
a manner conducive for learning, or the student and CFI do
not have compatible schedules, the student pilot should find
another CFI. Choosing the right CFI is important because the
quality of instruction and the knowledge and skills acquired
from their flight instructor affect a student pilot’s entire
flying career.

The Student Pilot
The first step in becoming a pilot is to select a type of aircraft.
FAA rules for obtaining a pilot’s certificate differ depending
on the type of aircraft flown. Individuals can choose among
airplanes, gyroplanes, weight-shift, helicopters, powered
parachutes, gliders, balloons, or airships. A pilot does not
need a certificate to fly ultralight vehicles.
Basic Requirements
A student pilot is one who is being trained by an instructor
pilot for his or her first full certificate, and is permitted
to fly alone (solo) under specific, limited circumstances.
Before a student pilot may be endorsed to fly solo, that
student must have a Student Pilot Certificate. There are
multiple ways that an aspiring pilot can obtain their Student
Pilot Certificate. The application may be processed by an
FAA inspector or technician, an FAA-Designated Pilot
Examiner, a Certified Flight Instructor (CFI), or an Airman
Certification Representative (ACR). If the application is
completed electronically, the authorized person will submit
the application to the FAA’s Airman Certification Branch
(AFS-760) in Oklahoma City, OK, via the Integrated
1-20

Airman Certification and Rating Application (IACRA). If
the application is completed on paper, it must be sent to
the local Flight Standards District Office (FSDO), who will
forward it to AFS-760. Once the application is processed, the
applicant will receive the Student Pilot Certificate by mail at
the address provided on the application.
The aforementioned process will become effective on April
1, 2016. The new certificate will be printed on a plastic card,
which will replace the paper certificate that was issued in the
past. The plastic card certificate will not have an expiration
date. Paper certificates issued prior to the new process will
still expire according to the date on the certificate; however,
under the new process, paper certificates cannot be renewed.
Once the paper certificate expires, the Student Pilot must
submit a new application under the new process. Another
significant change in the new process is that flight instructors
will now make endorsements for solo privileges in the
Student Pilot’s logbook, instead of endorsing the Student
Pilot Certificate.
To be eligible for a Student Pilot Certificate, the applicant
must:
•

Be at least 16 years of age (14 years of age to pilot a
glider or balloon).

•

Be able to read, speak, write, and understand the
English language.

Medical Certification Requirements
The second step in becoming a pilot is to obtain a medical
certificate (if the choice of aircraft is an airplane, helicopter,
gyroplane, or an airship). (The FAA suggests the individual
get a medical certificate before beginning flight training to
avoid the expense of flight training that cannot be continued
due to a medical condition.) Balloon or glider pilots do not
need a medical certificate, but do need to write a statement
certifying that no medical defect exists that would prevent
them from piloting a balloon or glider. The new sport pilot
category does not require a medical examination; a driver’s
license can be used as proof of medical competence.
Applicants who fail to meet certain requirements or who
have physical disabilities which might limit, but not
prevent, their acting as pilots, should contact the nearest
FAA office. Anyone requesting an FAA Medical Clearance,
Medical Certificate, or Student Pilot Medical Certificate can
electronically complete an application through the FAA’s
MedXPress system available at https://medxpress.faa.gov/.
A medical certificate is obtained by passing a physical
examination administered by a doctor who is an FAAauthorized AME. There are approximately 6,000
FAA-authorized AMEs in the nation. To find an AME near

you, go to the FAA’s AME locator at www.faa.gov/pilots/
amelocator/. Medical certificates are designated as first class,
second class, or third class. Generally, first class is designed
for the airline transport pilot; second class for the commercial
pilot; and third class for the student, recreational, and private
pilot. A Student Pilot Certificate can be processed by an FAA
inspector or technician, an FAA Designated pilot examiner
(DPE), an Airman Certification Representative (ACR), or a
Certified Flight Instructor (CFI). This certificate allows an
individual who is being trained by a flight instructor to fly
alone (solo) under specific, limited circumstances and must
be carried with the student pilot while exercising solo flight
privileges. The Student Pilot Certificate is only required
when exercising solo flight privileges. The new plastic
student certificate does not have an expiration date. For
airmen who were issued a paper certificate, that certificate
will remain valid until its expiration date. A paper certificate
cannot be renewed. When the paper certificate expires, a new
application must be completed via the IACRA system, and
a new plastic certificate will be issued.

Student Pilot Solo Requirements
Once a student has accrued sufficient training and experience,
a CFI can endorse the student’s logbook to authorize limited
solo flight in a specific type (make and model) of aircraft.
A student pilot may not carry passengers, fly in furtherance
of a business, or operate an aircraft outside of the various
endorsements provided by the flight instructor. There is no
minimum aeronautical knowledge or experience requirement
for the issuance of a Student Pilot Certificate, however, the
applicant must be at least 16 years of age (14 years of age for
a pilot for glider or balloon), and they must be able to read,
speak, write and understand the English language. There are,
however, minimum aeronautical knowledge and experience
requirements for student pilots to solo.

Becoming a Pilot
The course of instruction a student pilot follows depends on
the type of certificate sought. It should include the ground and
flight training necessary to acquire the knowledge and skills
required to safely and efficiently function as a certificated
pilot in the selected category and class of aircraft. The
specific knowledge and skill areas for each category and
class of aircraft are outlined in 14 CFR part 61. Eligibility,
aeronautical knowledge, proficiency, and aeronautical
requirements can be found in 14 CFR part 61.
•

Recreational Pilot, see subpart D

•

Private Pilot, see subpart E

•

Sport Pilot, see subpart J

of training and testing materials which are available in print
form from the Superintendent of Documents, GPO, and
online at the Regulatory Support Division: www.faa.gov/
about/office_org/headquarters_offices/avs/offices/afs/afs600.
The CFI may also use commercial publications as a source
of study materials, especially for aircraft categories where
government materials are limited. A student pilot should
follow the flight instructor’s advice on what and when to
study. Planning a definite study program and following it as
closely as possible will help in scoring well on the knowledge
test. Haphazard or disorganized study habits usually result
in an unsatisfactory score.
In addition to learning aeronautical knowledge, such as the
principles of flight, a student pilot is also required to gain
skill in flight maneuvers. The selected category and class of
aircraft determines the type of flight skills and number of
flight hours to be obtained. There are four steps involved in
learning a flight maneuver:
•

The CFI introduces and demonstrates flight maneuver
to the student.

•

The CFI talks the student pilot through the maneuver.

•

The student pilot practices the maneuver under CFI
supervision.

•

The CFI authorizes the student pilot to practice the
maneuver solo.

Once the student pilot has shown proficiency in the required
knowledge areas, flight maneuvers, and accrued the required
amount of flight hours, the CFI endorses the student pilot
logbook, which allows the student pilot to take the written
and practical tests for pilot certification.

Knowledge and Skill Tests
Knowledge Tests
The knowledge test is the computer portion of the tests taken
to obtain pilot certification. The test contains questions of
the objective, multiple-choice type. This testing method
conserves the applicant's time, eliminates any element of
individual judgment in determining grades, and saves time
in scoring.
FAA Airman Knowledge Test Guides for every type of pilot
certificate address most questions you may have regarding
the knowledge test process. The guides are available online (free of charge) at http://www.faa.gov/training_testing/
testing/test_guides/.

The knowledge-based portion of training is obtained through
FAA handbooks such as this one, textbooks, and other sources
1-21

When To Take the Knowledge Test
The knowledge test is more meaningful to the applicant
and more likely to result in a satisfactory grade if it is taken
after beginning the flight portion of the training. Therefore,
the FAA recommends the knowledge test be taken after the
student pilot has completed a solo cross-country flight. The
operational knowledge gained by this experience can be used
to the student’s advantage in the knowledge test. The student
pilot’s CFI is the best person to determine when the applicant
is ready to take the knowledge test.
Practical Test
The FAA has developed PTS for FAA pilot certificates
and associated ratings. [Figure 1-25] In 2015, the FAA
began transitioning to the ACS approach. The ACS is
essentially an “enhanced” version of the PTS. It adds taskspecific knowledge and risk management elements to each
PTS Area of Operation and Task. The result is a holistic,
integrated presentation of specific knowledge, skills, and
risk management elements and performance metrics for each
Area of Operation and Task The ACS evaluation program
will eventually replace the PTS program for evaluating and
certifying pilots.
The practical tests are administered by FAA ASIs and DPEs.
Title 14 CFR part 61 specifies the areas of operation in which

knowledge and skill must be demonstrated by the applicant.
Since the FAA requires all practical tests be conducted in
accordance with the appropriate PTS and the policies set forth
in the Introduction section of the PTS book. The pilot applicant
should become familiar with this book during training.
The PTS book is a testing document and not intended to be
a training syllabus. An appropriately-rated flight instructor
is responsible for training the pilot applicant to acceptable
standards in all subject matter areas, procedures, and
maneuvers. Descriptions of tasks and information on how to
perform maneuvers and procedures are contained in reference
and teaching documents such as this handbook. A list of
reference documents is contained in the Introduction section
of each PTS book. Copies may obtained by:
•

Downloading from the FAA website at www.faa.gov

•

Purchasing print copies from the GPO, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, or via their official online bookstore
at www.access.gpo.gov

The flight proficiency maneuvers listed in 14 CFR part 61
are the standard skill requirements for certification. They
are outlined in the PTS as “areas of operation.” These are
phases of the practical test arranged in a logical sequence
within the standard. They begin with preflight preparation
and end with postflight procedures. Each area of operation

FAA-S-8081-12C
14B
A-S-8081-

FA

FAA-S-8

081-8B

Figure 1-25. Examples of Practical Test Standards.

1-22

contains “tasks,” which are comprised of knowledge areas,
flight procedures, and/or flight maneuvers appropriate to the
area of operation. The candidate is required to demonstrate
knowledge and proficiency in all tasks for the original
issuance of all pilot certificates.

When To Take the Practical Test
14 CFR part 61 establishes the ground school and flight
experience requirements for the type of certification and
aircraft selected. However, the CFI best determines when an
applicant is qualified for the practical test. A practice practical
test is an important step in the flight training process.
The applicant will be asked to present the following
documentation:
•

FAA Form 8710-1 (8710.11 for sport pilot applicants),
Application for an Airman Certificate and/or Rating,
with the flight instructor’s recommendation

•

An Airman Knowledge Test Report with a
satisfactory grade

•

A medical certificate (not required for glider or
balloon), a Student Pilot Certificate, and a pilot
logbook endorsed by a flight instructor for solo, solo
cross-country (airplane and rotorcraft), and for the
make and model aircraft to be used for the practical
test (driver’s license or medical certificate for sport
pilot applicants)

•

The pilot log book records

•

A graduation certificate from an FAA-approved school
(if applicable)

The applicant must provide an airworthy aircraft with
equipment relevant to the areas of operation required for
the practical test. He or she will also be asked to produce
and explain the:
•

Aircraft’s registration certificate

•

Aircraft’s airworthiness certificate

•

Aircraft’s operating limitations or FAA-approved
aircraft flight manual (if required)

•

Aircraft equipment list

•

Required weight and balance data

•

Maintenance records

•

Applicable airworthiness directives (ADs)

For a detailed explanation of the required pilot maneuvers and
performance standards, refer to the PTS pertaining to the type
of certification and aircraft selected. These standards may be
downloaded free of charge from the FAA at www.faa.gov. They
may also be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents

or GPO bookstores. Most airport fixed-base operators and flight
schools carry a variety of government publications and charts,
as well as commercially published materials.

Who Administers the FAA Practical Tests?
Due to the varied responsibilities of the FSDOs, practical tests
are usually given by DPEs. An applicant should schedule the
practical test by appointment to avoid conflicts and wasted
time. A list of examiner names can be obtained from the local
FSDO. Since a DPE serves without pay from the government
for conducting practical tests and processing the necessary
reports, the examiner is allowed to charge a reasonable fee.
There is no charge for the practical test when conducted by
an FAA inspector.
Role of the Certificated Flight Instructor
To become a CFI, a pilot must meet the provisions of 14 CFR
part 61. The FAA places full responsibility for student flight
training on the shoulders of the CFI, who is the cornerstone
of aviation safety. It is the job of the flight instructor to train
the student pilot in all the knowledge areas and teach the
skills necessary for the student pilot to operate safely and
competently as a certificated pilot in the NAS. The training
includes airmanship skills, pilot judgment and decisionmaking, and good operating practices.
A pilot training program depends on the quality of the
ground and flight instruction the student pilot receives. The
flight instructor must possess a thorough understanding of
the learning process, knowledge of the fundamentals of
teaching, and the ability to communicate effectively with the
student pilot. Use of a structured training program and formal
course syllabus is crucial for effective and comprehensive
flight training. It should be clear to the student in advance of
every lesson what the course of training will involve and the
criteria for successful completion. This should include the
flight instructor briefing and debriefing the student before and
after every lesson. Additionally, scenario-based training has
become the preferred method of flight instruction today. This
involves presenting the student with realistic flight scenarios
and recommended actions for mitigating risk.
Insistence on correct techniques and procedures from the
beginning of training by the flight instructor ensures that the
student pilot develops proper flying habits. Any deficiencies
in the maneuvers or techniques must immediately be
emphasized and corrected. A flight instructor serves as a role
model for the student pilot who observes the flying habits of
his or her flight instructor during flight instruction, as well
as when the instructor conducts other pilot operations. Thus,
the flight instructor becomes a model of flying proficiency
for the student who, consciously or unconsciously, attempts
to imitate the instructor. For this reason, a flight instructor
1-23

should observe recognized safety practices, as well as
regulations during all flight operations.
The student pilot who enrolls in a pilot training program
commits considerable time, effort, and expense to achieve a
pilot certificate. Students often judge the effectiveness of the
flight instructor and the success of the pilot training program
based on their ability to pass the requisite FAA practical
test. A competent flight instructor stresses to the student that
practical tests are a sampling of pilot ability compressed into
a short period of time. The goal of a flight instructor is to
train the “total” pilot.
Role of the Designated Pilot Examiner
The Designated Pilot Examiner (DPE) plays an important
role in the FAA’s mission of promoting aviation safety
by administering FAA practical tests for pilot and Flight
Instructor Certificates and associated ratings. Although
administering these tests is a responsibility of the ASI, the
FAA’s highest priority is making air travel safer by inspecting
aircraft that fly in the United States. To satisfy the need for
pilot testing and certification services, the FAA delegates
certain responsibilities to private individuals who are not
FAA employees.
Appointed in accordance with 14 CFR part 183, section
183.23, a DPE is an individual who meets the qualification
requirements of the Pilot Examiner’s Handbook, FAA Order
8710.3, and who:
•

Is technically qualified

•

Holds all pertinent category, class, and type ratings
for each aircraft related to their designation

•

Meets requirements of 14 CFR part 61, sections 61.56,
61.57, and 61.58, as appropriate

•

Is current and qualified to act as PIC of each aircraft
for which he or she is authorized

•

Maintains at least a Third-Class Medical Certificate,
if required

•

Maintains a current Flight Instructor Certificate, if
required

Designated to perform specific pilot certification tasks
on behalf of the FAA, a DPE may charge a reasonable
fee. Generally, a DPE’s authority is limited to accepting
applications and conducting practical tests leading to the
issuance of specific pilot certificates and/or ratings. The
majority of FAA practical tests at the private and commercial
pilot levels are administered by DPEs.
DPE candidates must have good industry reputations for
professionalism, integrity, a demonstrated willingness to
1-24

serve the public, and must adhere to FAA policies and
procedures in certification matters. The FAA expects the
DPE to administer practical tests with the same degree of
professionalism, using the same methods, procedures, and
standards as an FAA ASI.

Chapter Summary
The FAA has entered the second century of civil aviation as a
robust government organization and is taking full advantage of
technology, such as Global Positioning System (GPS) satellite
technology to enhance the safety of civil aviation. The Internet
has also become an important tool in promoting aviation safety
and providing around-the-clock resources for the aviation
community. Handbooks, regulations, standards, references,
and online courses are now available at www.faa.gov.
In keeping with the FAA’s belief that safety is a learned
behavior, the FAA offers many courses and seminars to
enhance air safety. The FAA puts the burden of instilling safe
flying habits on the flight instructor, who should follow basic
flight safety practices and procedures in every flight operation
he or she undertakes with a student pilot. Operational safety
practices include, but are not limited to, collision avoidance
procedures consisting of proper scanning techniques, use of
checklists, runway incursion avoidance, positive transfer of
controls, and workload management. These safety practices
are discussed more fully within this handbook. Safe flight also
depends on Scenario-Based Training (SBT) that teaches the
student pilot how to respond in different flight situations. The
FAA has incorporated these techniques along with decisionmaking methods, such as aeronautical decision-making
(ADM), risk management, and crew resource management
(CRM), which are covered more completely in Chapter 2,
Aeronautical Decision-Making.

