Chapter 2

Aeronautical
Decision-Making
Introduction
Aeronautical decision-making (ADM) is decision-making
in a unique environment—aviation. It is a systematic
approach to the mental process used by pilots to consistently
determine the best course of action in response to a given set
of circumstances. It is what a pilot intends to do based on the
latest information he or she has.

2-1

The importance of learning and understanding effective
ADM skills cannot be overemphasized. While progress is
continually being made in the advancement of pilot training
methods, aircraft equipment and systems, and services
for pilots, accidents still occur. Despite all the changes in
technology to improve flight safety, one factor remains the
same: the human factor which leads to errors. It is estimated
that approximately 80 percent of all aviation accidents are
related to human factors and the vast majority of these
accidents occur during landing (24.1 percent) and takeoff
(23.4 percent). [Figure 2-1]
ADM is a systematic approach to risk assessment and stress
management. To understand ADM is to also understand
how personal attitudes can influence decision-making and
how those attitudes can be modified to enhance safety in the
flight deck. It is important to understand the factors that cause
humans to make decisions and how the decision-making
process not only works, but can be improved.
This chapter focuses on helping the pilot improve his or
her ADM skills with the goal of mitigating the risk factors
associated with flight. Advisory Circular (AC) 60-22,
“Aeronautical Decision-Making,” provides background
references, definitions, and other pertinent information about
ADM training in the general aviation (GA) environment.
[Figure 2-2]

History of ADM
For over 25 years, the importance of good pilot judgment, or
aeronautical decision-making (ADM), has been recognized
as critical to the safe operation of aircraft, as well as accident
avoidance. The airline industry, motivated by the need to
reduce accidents caused by human factors, developed the first
training programs based on improving ADM. Crew resource
management (CRM) training for flight crews is focused on
the effective use of all available resources: human resources,
hardware, and information supporting ADM to facilitate crew
cooperation and improve decision-making. The goal of all
flight crews is good ADM and the use of CRM is one way
to make good decisions.
Research in this area prompted the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) to produce training directed at
improving the decision-making of pilots and led to current
FAA regulations that require that decision-making be taught
as part of the pilot training curriculum. ADM research,
development, and testing culminated in 1987 with the
publication of six manuals oriented to the decision-making
needs of variously rated pilots. These manuals provided
multifaceted materials designed to reduce the number
of decision-related accidents. The effectiveness of these
materials was validated in independent studies where student
pilots received such training in conjunction with the standard
flying curriculum. When tested, the pilots who had received
ADM-training made fewer in-flight errors than those who had

Percentage of General Aviation Accidents
Flight Time
2%

Flight Time
83%

Flight Time
15%

24.1%

23.4%

15.7%
13%
9.7%

3.5%

Preflights/
Taxi

4.7%

3.3%

Takeoff/
Initial Climb

Climb

2.6%

Cruise

Descent

Maneuvering

Approach

Landing

Other

Figure 2-1. The percentage of aviation accidents as they relate to the different phases of flight. Note that the greatest percentage of

accidents take place during a minor percentage of the total flight.

2-2

Figure 2-2. Advisory Circular (AC) 60-22, “Aeronautical Decision Making,” carries a wealth of information for the pilot to learn.

not received ADM training. The differences were statistically
significant and ranged from about 10 to 50 percent fewer
judgment errors. In the operational environment, an operator
flying about 400,000 hours annually demonstrated a 54
percent reduction in accident rate after using these materials
for recurrency training.
Contrary to popular opinion, good judgment can be taught.
Tradition held that good judgment was a natural by-product
of experience, but as pilots continued to log accident-free
flight hours, a corresponding increase of good judgment
was assumed. Building upon the foundation of conventional
decision-making, ADM enhances the process to decrease the
probability of human error and increase the probability of a
safe flight. ADM provides a structured, systematic approach
to analyzing changes that occur during a flight and how these
changes might affect the safe outcome of a flight. The ADM
process addresses all aspects of decision-making in the flight
deck and identifies the steps involved in good decision-making.
Steps for good decision-making are:
1.

Identifying personal attitudes hazardous to safe flight

2.

Learning behavior modification techniques

3.

Learning how to recognize and cope with stress

4.

Developing risk assessment skills

5.

Using all resources

6.

Evaluating the effectiveness of one’s ADM skills

Risk Management
The goal of risk management is to proactively identify
safety-related hazards and mitigate the associated risks. Risk
management is an important component of ADM. When a
pilot follows good decision-making practices, the inherent risk
in a flight is reduced or even eliminated. The ability to make
good decisions is based upon direct or indirect experience
and education. The formal risk management decision-making
process involves six steps as shown in Figure 2-3.
Consider automotive seat belt use. In just two decades, seat
belt use has become the norm, placing those who do not
wear seat belts outside the norm, but this group may learn to
wear a seat belt by either direct or indirect experience. For
example, a driver learns through direct experience about the
value of wearing a seat belt when he or she is involved in a car
accident that leads to a personal injury. An indirect learning
experience occurs when a loved one is injured during a car
accident because he or she failed to wear a seat belt.
As you work through the ADM cycle, it is important to
remember the four fundamental principles of risk management.
2-3

START

Monitor
Results

Crew Resource Management (CRM) and
Single-Pilot Resource Management
Identify
Hazards

RISK

Assess
Risks

MANAGEMENT

PROCESS
Use
Controls

Analyze
Controls

Make Control
Decisions

Figure 2-3. Risk management decision-making process.

1.

2.

Accept no unnecessary risk. Flying is not possible
without risk, but unnecessary risk comes without a
corresponding return. If you are flying a new airplane
for the first time, you might determine that the risk
of making that flight in low visibility conditions is
unnecessary.
Make risk decisions at the appropriate level. Risk
decisions should be made by the person who can
develop and implement risk controls. Remember
that you are pilot-in-command, so never let anyone
else—not ATC and not your passengers—make risk
decisions for you.

3.

Accept risk when benefits outweigh dangers (costs).
In any flying activity, it is necessary to accept some
degree of risk. A day with good weather, for example,
is a much better time to fly an unfamiliar airplane for
the first time than a day with low IFR conditions.

4.

Integrate risk management into planning at all levels.
Because risk is an unavoidable part of every flight,
safety requires the use of appropriate and effective risk
management not just in the preflight planning stage,
but in all stages of the flight.

While poor decision-making in everyday life does not always
lead to tragedy, the margin for error in aviation is thin. Since
ADM enhances management of an aeronautical environment,
all pilots should become familiar with and employ ADM.

2-4

While CRM focuses on pilots operating in crew environments,
many of the concepts apply to single-pilot operations. Many
CRM principles have been successfully applied to single-pilot
aircraft and led to the development of Single-Pilot Resource
Management (SRM). SRM is defined as the art and science
of managing all the resources (both on-board the aircraft
and from outside sources) available to a single pilot (prior
to and during flight) to ensure the successful outcome of the
flight. SRM includes the concepts of ADM, risk management
(RM), task management (TM), automation management
(AM), controlled flight into terrain (CFIT) awareness, and
situational awareness (SA). SRM training helps the pilot
maintain situational awareness by managing the automation
and associated aircraft control and navigation tasks. This
enables the pilot to accurately assess and manage risk and
make accurate and timely decisions.
SRM is all about helping pilots learn how to gather
information, analyze it, and make decisions. Although the
flight is coordinated by a single person and not an onboard
flight crew, the use of available resources such as auto-pilot
and air traffic control (ATC) replicates the principles of CRM.

Hazard and Risk
Two defining elements of ADM are hazard and risk. Hazard
is a real or perceived condition, event, or circumstance that a
pilot encounters. When faced with a hazard, the pilot makes
an assessment of that hazard based upon various factors. The
pilot assigns a value to the potential impact of the hazard,
which qualifies the pilot’s assessment of the hazard—risk.
Therefore, risk is an assessment of the single or cumulative
hazard facing a pilot; however, different pilots see hazards
differently. For example, the pilot arrives to preflight and
discovers a small, blunt type nick in the leading edge at the
middle of the aircraft’s prop. Since the aircraft is parked on
the tarmac, the nick was probably caused by another aircraft’s
prop wash blowing some type of debris into the propeller.
The nick is the hazard (a present condition). The risk is prop
fracture if the engine is operated with damage to a prop blade.
The seasoned pilot may see the nick as a low risk. He
realizes this type of nick diffuses stress over a large area, is
located in the strongest portion of the propeller, and based
on experience; he does not expect it to propagate a crack that
can lead to high risk problems. He does not cancel his flight.

The inexperienced pilot may see the nick as a high risk factor
because he is unsure of the affect the nick will have on the
operation of the prop, and he has been told that damage to
a prop could cause a catastrophic failure. This assessment
leads him to cancel his flight.
Therefore, elements or factors affecting individuals are
different and profoundly impact decision-making. These
are called human factors and can transcend education,
experience, health, physiological aspects, etc.
Another example of risk assessment was the flight of a
Beechcraft King Air equipped with deicing and anti-icing.
The pilot deliberately flew into moderate to severe icing
conditions while ducking under cloud cover. A prudent pilot
would assess the risk as high and beyond the capabilities of
the aircraft, yet this pilot did the opposite. Why did the pilot
take this action?
Past experience prompted the action. The pilot had
successfully flown into these conditions repeatedly although
the icing conditions were previously forecast 2,000 feet above
the surface. This time, the conditions were forecast from the
surface. Since the pilot was in a hurry and failed to factor

in the difference between the forecast altitudes, he assigned
a low risk to the hazard and took a chance. He and the
passengers died from a poor risk assessment of the situation.
Hazardous Attitudes and Antidotes
Being fit to fly depends on more than just a pilot’s physical
condition and recent experience. For example, attitude
affects the quality of decisions. Attitude is a motivational
predisposition to respond to people, situations, or events in a
given manner. Studies have identified five hazardous attitudes
that can interfere with the ability to make sound decisions
and exercise authority properly: anti-authority, impulsivity,
invulnerability, macho, and resignation. [Figure 2-4]
Hazardous attitudes contribute to poor pilot judgment but
can be effectively counteracted by redirecting the hazardous
attitude so that correct action can be taken. Recognition of
hazardous thoughts is the first step toward neutralizing them.
After recognizing a thought as hazardous, the pilot should
label it as hazardous, then state the corresponding antidote.
Antidotes should be memorized for each of the hazardous
attitudes so they automatically come to mind when needed.

The Five Hazardous Attitudes
Anti-authority: “Don’t tell me.”
This attitude is found in people who do not like anyone telling them what to do. In a
sense, they are saying, “No one can tell me what to do.” They may be resentful of
having someone tell them what to do or may regard rules, regulations, and procedures
as silly or unnecessary. However, it is always your prerogative to question authority
if you feel it is in error.
Impulsivity: “Do it quickly.”
This is the attitude of people who frequently feel the need to do something, anything,
immediately. They do not stop to think about what they are about to do, they do not
select the best alternative, and they do the first thing that comes to mind.
Invulnerability: “It won’t happen to me.”
Many people falsely believe that accidents happen to others, but never to them. They
know accidents can happen, and they know that anyone can be affected. However,
they never really feel or believe that they will be personally involved. Pilots who think
this way are more likely to take chances and increase risk.
Macho: “I can do it.”
Pilots who are always trying to prove that they are better than anyone else think, “I can
do it—I'll show them.” Pilots with this type of attitude will try to prove themselves by
taking risks in order to impress others. While this pattern is thought to be a male
characteristic, women are equally susceptible.
Resignation: “What’s the use?”
Pilots who think, “What’s the use?” do not see themselves as being able to make a
great deal of difference in what happens to them. When things go well, the pilot is apt
to think that it is good luck. When things go badly, the pilot may feel that someone is
out to get them or attribute it to bad luck. The pilot will leave the action to others, for
better or worse. Sometimes, such pilots will even go along with unreasonable requests
just to be a "nice guy."

Antidote

Follow the rules. They are usually right.

Not so fast. Think first.

It could happen to me.

Taking chances is foolish.

I’m not helpless. I can make a difference.

Figure 2-4. The five hazardous attitudes identified through past and contemporary study.

2-5

Risk
During each flight, the single pilot makes many decisions
under hazardous conditions. To fly safely, the pilot needs
to assess the degree of risk and determine the best course of
action to mitigate the risk.

Risk Assessment Matrix
Severity

Assessing Risk
For the single pilot, assessing risk is not as simple as it sounds.
For example, the pilot acts as his or her own quality control
in making decisions. If a fatigued pilot who has flown 16
hours is asked if he or she is too tired to continue flying, the
answer may be “no.” Most pilots are goal oriented and when
asked to accept a flight, there is a tendency to deny personal
limitations while adding weight to issues not germane to the
mission. For example, pilots of helicopter emergency services
(EMS) have been known (more than other groups) to make
flight decisions that add significant weight to the patient’s
welfare. These pilots add weight to intangible factors (the
patient in this case) and fail to appropriately quantify actual
hazards, such as fatigue or weather, when making flight
decisions. The single pilot who has no other crew member
for consultation must wrestle with the intangible factors that
draw one into a hazardous position. Therefore, he or she has
a greater vulnerability than a full crew.
Examining National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB)
reports and other accident research can help a pilot learn to
assess risk more effectively. For example, the accident rate
during night visual flight rules (VFR) decreases by nearly
50 percent once a pilot obtains 100 hours and continues to
decrease until the 1,000 hour level. The data suggest that for
the first 500 hours, pilots flying VFR at night might want to
establish higher personal limitations than are required by the
regulations and, if applicable, apply instrument flying skills
in this environment.
Several risk assessment models are available to assist in the
process of assessing risk. The models, all taking slightly
different approaches, seek a common goal of assessing risk
in an objective manner. The most basic tool is the risk matrix.
[Figure 2-5] It assesses two items: the likelihood of an event
occurring and the consequence of that event.
Likelihood of an Event
Likelihood is nothing more than taking a situation and
determining the probability of its occurrence. It is rated as
probable, occasional, remote, or improbable. For example, a
pilot is flying from point A to point B (50 miles) in marginal
visual flight rules (MVFR) conditions. The likelihood of
encountering potential instrument meteorological conditions
(IMC) is the first question the pilot needs to answer. The
experiences of other pilots, coupled with the forecast, might

2-6

Likelihood

Catastrophic

Critical

Marginal

Probable

High

High

Serious

Occasional

High

Serious

Remote

Serious

Medium

Negligible

Low

Improbable

Figure 2-5. This risk matrix can be used for almost any operation

by assigning likelihood and consequence. In the case presented,
the pilot assigned a likelihood of occasional and the severity as
catastrophic. As one can see, this falls in the high risk area.

cause the pilot to assign “occasional” to determine the
probability of encountering IMC.
The following are guidelines for making assignments.
•

Probable—an event will occur several times

•

Occasional—an event will probably occur sometime

•

Remote—an event is unlikely to occur, but is possible

•

Improbable—an event is highly unlikely to occur

Severity of an Event
The next element is the severity or consequence of a pilot’s
action(s). It can relate to injury and/or damage. If the
individual in the example above is not an instrument rated
pilot, what are the consequences of him or her encountering
inadvertent IMC conditions? In this case, because the pilot
is not IFR rated, the consequences are catastrophic. The
following are guidelines for this assignment.
•

Catastrophic—results in fatalities, total loss

•

Critical—severe injury, major damage

•

Marginal—minor injury, minor damage

•

Negligible—less than minor injury, less than minor
system damage

Simply connecting the two factors as shown in Figure 2-5
indicates the risk is high and the pilot must either not fly or
fly only after finding ways to mitigate, eliminate, or control
the risk.
Although the matrix in Figure 2-5 provides a general viewpoint
of a generic situation, a more comprehensive program can be
made that is tailored to a pilot’s flying. [Figure 2-6] This
program includes a wide array of aviation-related activities
specific to the pilot and assesses health, fatigue, weather,

RISK ASSESSMENT
Pilot’s Name

Flight From

SLEEP

To

HOW IS THE DAY GOING?

1. Did not sleep well or less than 8 hours
2. Slept well

2
0

1. Seems like one thing after another (late,
making errors, out of step)
2. Great day

3
0

HOW DO YOU FEEL?
1. Have a cold or ill
2. Feel great
3. Feel a bit off

4
0
2

IS THE FLIGHT
1. Day?
2. Night?

WEATHER AT TERMINATION

1
3

PLANNING

1. Greater than 5 miles visibility and 3,000 feet
ceilings
2. At least 3 miles visibility and 1,000 feet ceilings,
but less than 3,000 feet ceilings and 5 miles
visibility
3. IMC conditions
Column total

1

3
4

1. Rush to get off ground
2. No hurry
3. Used charts and computer to assist
4. Used computer program for all planning
5. Did you verify weight and balance?
6. Did you evaluate performance?
7. Do you brief your passangers on the
ground and in flight?

Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No

3
1
0
3
0
0
3
0
3
0
2

Column total

Low risk

Endangerment

TOTAL SCORE

0

Not complex flight

10

Exercise caution

20

Area of concern

30

Figure 2-6. Example of a more comprehensive risk assessment program.

2-7

capabilities, etc. The scores are added and the overall score
falls into various ranges, with the range representative of
actions that a pilot imposes upon himself or herself.

Mitigating Risk
Risk assessment is only part of the equation. After
determining the level of risk, the pilot needs to mitigate the
risk. For example, the pilot flying from point A to point B (50
miles) in MVFR conditions has several ways to reduce risk:
•

Wait for the weather to improve to good visual flight
rules (VFR) conditions.

•

Take an instrument-rated pilot.

•

Delay the flight.

•

Cancel the flight.

•

Drive.

One of the best ways single pilots can mitigate risk is to use
the IMSAFE checklist to determine physical and mental
readiness for flying:

Once a pilot identifies the risks of a flight, he or she needs
to decide whether the risk, or combination of risks, can be
managed safely and successfully. If not, make the decision to
cancel the flight. If the pilot decides to continue with the flight,
he or she should develop strategies to mitigate the risks. One
way a pilot can control the risks is to set personal minimums
for items in each risk category. These are limits unique to that
individual pilot’s current level of experience and proficiency.
For example, the aircraft may have a maximum crosswind
component of 15 knots listed in the aircraft flight manual
(AFM), and the pilot has experience with 10 knots of direct
crosswind. It could be unsafe to exceed a 10 knot crosswind
component without additional training. Therefore, the 10 knot
crosswind experience level is that pilot’s personal limitation
until additional training with a certificated flight instructor
(CFI) provides the pilot with additional experience for flying
in crosswinds that exceed 10 knots.
One of the most important concepts that safe pilots
understand is the difference between what is “legal” in terms
of the regulations, and what is “smart” or “safe” in terms of
pilot experience and proficiency.

1.

Illness—Am I sick? Illness is an obvious pilot risk.

2.

Medication—Am I taking any medicines that might
affect my judgment or make me drowsy?

3.

Stress—Am I under psychological pressure from the
job? Do I have money, health, or family problems?
Stress causes concentration and performance problems.
While the regulations list medical conditions that
require grounding, stress is not among them. The pilot
should consider the effects of stress on performance.

The pilot is one of the risk factors in a flight. The pilot must
ask, “Am I ready for this trip?” in terms of experience,
recency, currency, physical, and emotional condition. The
IMSAFE checklist provides the answers.

Alcohol—Have I been drinking within 8 hours?
Within 24 hours? As little as one ounce of liquor, one
bottle of beer, or four ounces of wine can impair flying
skills. Alcohol also renders a pilot more susceptible
to disorientation and hypoxia.

What limitations will the aircraft impose upon the trip? Ask
the following questions:

4.

5.

Fatigue—Am I tired and not adequately rested?
Fatigue continues to be one of the most insidious
hazards to flight safety, as it may not be apparent to
a pilot until serious errors are made.

6.

Emotion—Am I emotionally upset?

The PAVE Checklist
Another way to mitigate risk is to perceive hazards. By
incorporating the PAVE checklist into preflight planning,
the pilot divides the risks of flight into four categories: Pilotin-command (PIC), Aircraft, enVironment, and External
pressures (PAVE) which form part of a pilot’s decisionmaking process.
With the PAVE checklist, pilots have a simple way to
remember each category to examine for risk prior to each flight.
2-8

P = Pilot in Command (PIC)

A = Aircraft

•

Is this the right aircraft for the flight?

•

Am I familiar with and current in this aircraft? Aircraft
performance figures and the AFM are based on a brand
new aircraft flown by a professional test pilot. Keep
that in mind while assessing personal and aircraft
performance.

•

Is this aircraft equipped for the flight? Instruments?
Lights? Navigation and communication equipment
adequate?

•

Can this aircraft use the runways available for the trip
with an adequate margin of safety under the conditions
to be flown?

•

Can this aircraft carry the planned load?

•

Can this aircraft operate at the altitudes needed for the
trip?

•

Does this aircraft have sufficient fuel capacity, with
reserves, for trip legs planned?

•

Does the fuel quantity delivered match the fuel
quantity ordered?

V = EnVironment
Weather
Weather is a major environmental consideration. Earlier it was
suggested pilots set their own personal minimums, especially
when it comes to weather. As pilots evaluate the weather for
a particular flight, they should consider the following:
•

•

What is the current ceiling and visibility? In
mountainous terrain, consider having higher
minimums for ceiling and visibility, particularly if
the terrain is unfamiliar.
Consider the possibility that the weather may be
different than forecast. Have alternative plans and
be ready and willing to divert, should an unexpected
change occur.

•

Consider the winds at the airports being used and the
strength of the crosswind component.

•

If flying in mountainous terrain, consider whether
there are strong winds aloft. Strong winds in
mountainous terrain can cause severe turbulence and
downdrafts and be very hazardous for aircraft even
when there is no other significant weather.

guidance? Is the terminal airport equipped with them?
Are they working? Will the pilot need to use the radio
to activate the airport lights?
•

Check the Notices to Airmen (NOTAM) for closed
runways or airports. Look for runway or beacon lights
out, nearby towers, etc.

•

Choose the flight route wisely. An engine failure gives
the nearby airports supreme importance.

•

Are there shorter or obstructed fields at the destination
and/or alternate airports?

Airspace
•

If the trip is over remote areas, is there appropriate
clothing, water, and survival gear onboard in the event
of a forced landing?

•

If the trip includes flying over water or unpopulated
areas with the chance of losing visual reference to the
horizon, the pilot must be prepared to fly IFR.

•

Check the airspace and any temporary flight restriction
(TFRs) along the route of flight.

Nighttime
Night flying requires special consideration.

•

Are there any thunderstorms present or forecast?

•

•

If there are clouds, is there any icing, current or
forecast? What is the temperature/dew point spread
and the current temperature at altitude? Can descent
be made safely all along the route?

If the trip includes flying at night over water or
unpopulated areas with the chance of losing visual
reference to the horizon, the pilot must be prepared
to fly IFR.

•

Will the flight conditions allow a safe emergency
landing at night?

•

Perform preflight check of all aircraft lights, interior
and exterior, for a night flight. Carry at least two
flashlights—one for exterior preflight and a smaller
one that can be dimmed and kept nearby.

•

If icing conditions are encountered, is the pilot
experienced at operating the aircraft’s deicing or
anti-icing equipment? Is this equipment in good
condition and functional? For what icing conditions
is the aircraft rated, if any?

Terrain
Evaluation of terrain is another important component of
analyzing the flight environment.
•

•

To avoid terrain and obstacles, especially at night or
in low visibility, determine safe altitudes in advance
by using the altitudes shown on VFR and IFR charts
during preflight planning.
Use maximum elevation figures (MEFs) and other
easily obtainable data to minimize chances of an
inflight collision with terrain or obstacles.

Airport
•

What lights are available at the destination and
alternate airports? VASI/PAPI or ILS glideslope

E = External Pressures
External pressures are influences external to the flight that
create a sense of pressure to complete a flight—often at the
expense of safety. Factors that can be external pressures
include the following:
•

Someone waiting at the airport for the flight’s arrival

•

A passenger the pilot does not want to disappoint

•

The desire to demonstrate pilot qualifications

•

The desire to impress someone (Probably the two most
dangerous words in aviation are “Watch this!”)

•

The desire to satisfy a specific personal goal (“gethome-itis,” “get-there-itis,” and “let’s-go-itis”)

•

The pilot’s general goal-completion orientation
2-9

•

Emotional pressure associated with acknowledging
that skill and experience levels may be lower than a
pilot would like them to be. Pride can be a powerful
external factor!

Managing External Pressures
Management of external pressure is the single most important
key to risk management because it is the one risk factor
category that can cause a pilot to ignore all the other risk
factors. External pressures put time-related pressure on the
pilot and figure into a majority of accidents.
The use of personal standard operating procedures (SOPs) is
one way to manage external pressures. The goal is to supply a
release for the external pressures of a flight. These procedures
include but are not limited to:
•

Allow time on a trip for an extra fuel stop or to make
an unexpected landing because of weather.

•

Have alternate plans for a late arrival or make backup
airline reservations for must-be-there trips.

•

For really important trips, plan to leave early enough
so that there would still be time to drive to the
destination, if necessary.

Pilot
A pilot must continually make decisions about competency,
condition of health, mental and emotional state, level of fatigue,
and many other variables. For example, a pilot may be called
early in the morning to make a long flight. If a pilot has had only
a few hours of sleep and is concerned that the congestion
being experienced could be the onset of a cold, it would be
prudent to consider if the flight could be accomplished safely.
A pilot had only 4 hours of sleep the night before being asked
by the boss to fly to a meeting in a city 750 miles away. The
reported weather was marginal and not expected to improve.
After assessing fitness as a pilot, it was decided that it would
not be wise to make the flight. The boss was initially unhappy,
but later convinced by the pilot that the risks involved were
unacceptable.
Environment
This encompasses many elements not pilot or airplane related.
It can include such factors as weather, air traffic control,
navigational aids (NAVAIDS), terrain, takeoff and landing
areas, and surrounding obstacles. Weather is one element that
can change drastically over time and distance.
A pilot was landing a small airplane just after a heavy jet had
departed a parallel runway. The pilot assumed that wake
turbulence would not be a problem since landings had been
performed under similar circumstances. Due to a combination
of prevailing winds and wake turbulence from the heavy jet
drifting across the landing runway, the airplane made a hard
landing. The pilot made an error when assessing the flight
environment.

Figure 2-7. The PAVE checklist.

2-10

•

Advise those who are waiting at the destination that
the arrival may be delayed. Know how to notify them
when delays are encountered.

•

Manage passengers’ expectations. Make sure
passengers know that they might not arrive on a firm
schedule, and if they must arrive by a certain time,
they should make alternative plans.

•

Eliminate pressure to return home, even on a casual
day flight, by carrying a small overnight kit containing
prescriptions, contact lens solutions, toiletries, or other
necessities on every flight.

The key to managing external pressure is to be ready for
and accept delays. Remember that people get delayed when
traveling on airlines, driving a car, or taking a bus. The pilot’s
goal is to manage risk, not create hazards. [Figure 2-7]

Human Factors
Why are human conditions, such as fatigue, complacency
and stress, so important in aviation? These conditions, along
with many others, are called human factors. Human factors
directly cause or contribute to many aviation accidents and

Aircraft
A pilot will frequently base decisions on the evaluations of the
aircraft, such as performance, equipment, or airworthiness.
During a preflight, a pilot noticed a small amount of oil dripping
from the bottom of the cowling. Although the quantity of oil
seemed insignificant at the time, the pilot decided to delay the
takeoff and have a mechanic check the source of the oil.
The pilot’s good judgment was confirmed when the mechanic
found that one of the oil cooler hose fittings was loose.
External pressures
The interaction between the pilot, airplane, and the environment
is greatly influenced by the purpose of each flight operation.
The pilot must evaluate the three previous areas to decide on
the desirability of undertaking or continuing the flight as planned.
It is worth asking why the flight is being made, how critical is it to
maintain the schedule, and is the trip worth the risks?
On a ferry flight to deliver an airplane from the factory, in
marginal weather conditions, the pilot calculated the
groundspeed and determined that the airplane would arrive at
the destination with only 10 minutes of fuel remaining. The pilot
was determined to keep on schedule by trying to “stretch” the
fuel supply instead of landing to refuel. After landing with low
fuel state, the pilot realized that this could have easily resulted
in an emergency landing in deteriorating weather conditions.
This was a chance that was not worth taking to keep the
planned schedule.

have been documented as a primary contributor to more than
70 percent of aircraft accidents.
Typically, human factor incidents/accidents are associated
with flight operations but recently have also become a major
concern in aviation maintenance and air traffic management
as well. [Figure 2-8] Over the past several years, the FAA has
made the study and research of human factors a top priority
by working closely with engineers, pilots, mechanics, and
ATC to apply the latest knowledge about human factors in
an effort to help operators and maintainers improve safety
and efficiency in their daily operations.
Human factors science, or human factors technologies,
is a multidisciplinary field incorporating contributions
from psychology, engineering, industrial design, statistics,
operations research, and anthropometry. It is a term that
covers the science of understanding the properties of
human capability, the application of this understanding to
the design, development and deployment of systems and
services, and the art of ensuring successful application of
human factor principles into all aspects of aviation to include
pilots, ATC, and aviation maintenance. Human factors is
often considered synonymous with CRM or maintenance
resource management (MRM) but is really much broader in

both its knowledge base and scope. Human factors involves
gathering research specific to certain situations (i.e., flight,
maintenance, stress levels, knowledge) about human abilities,
limitations, and other characteristics and applying it to tool
design, machines, systems, tasks, jobs, and environments
to produce safe, comfortable, and effective human use. The
entire aviation community benefits greatly from human
factors research and development as it helps better understand
how humans can most safely and efficiently perform their
jobs and improve the tools and systems in which they interact.

Human Behavior
Studies of human behavior have tried to determine an
individual’s predisposition to taking risks and the level of
an individual’s involvement in accidents. In 1951, a study
regarding injury-prone children was published by Elizabeth
Mechem Fuller and Helen B. Baune, of the University of
Minnesota. The study was comprised of two separate groups
of second grade students. Fifty-five students were considered
accident repeaters and 48 students had no accidents. Both
groups were from the same school of 600 and their family
demographics were similar.
The accident-free group showed a superior knowledge
of safety, was considered industrious and cooperative

Figure 2-8. Human factors effects pilots, aviation maintenance technicians (AMTs) and air traffic control (ATC).

2-11

with others, but were not considered physically inclined.
The accident-repeater group had better gymnastic skills,
was considered aggressive and impulsive, demonstrated
rebellious behavior when under stress, were poor losers, and
liked to be the center of attention. One interpretation of this
data—an adult predisposition to injury stems from childhood
behavior and environment—leads to the conclusion that
any pilot group should be comprised only of pilots who are
safety-conscious, industrious, and cooperative.
Clearly, this is not only an inaccurate inference, it is
impossible. Pilots are drawn from the general population and
exhibit all types of personality traits. Thus, it is important that
good decision-making skills be taught to all pilots.
Historically, the term “pilot error” has been used to describe
an accident in which an action or decision made by the
pilot was the cause or a contributing factor that led to the
accident. This definition also includes the pilot’s failure
to make a correct decision or take proper action. From a
broader perspective, the phrase “human factors related” more
aptly describes these accidents. A single decision or event
does not lead to an accident, but a series of events and the
resultant decisions together form a chain of events leading
to an outcome.
In his article “Accident-Prone Pilots,” Dr. Patrick R. Veillette
uses the history of “Captain Everyman” to demonstrate how
aircraft accidents are caused more by a chain of poor choices
rather than one single poor choice. In the case of Captain
Everyman, after a gear-up landing accident, he became
involved in another accident while taxiing a Beech 58P Baron
out of the ramp. Interrupted by a radio call from the dispatcher,
Everyman neglected to complete the fuel cross-feed check
before taking off. Everyman, who was flying solo, left the
right-fuel selector in the cross-feed position. Once aloft and
cruising, he noticed a right roll tendency and corrected with
aileron trim. He did not realize that both engines were feeding
off the left wing’s tank, making the wing lighter.
After two hours of flight, the right engine quit when
Everyman was flying along a deep canyon gorge. While he
was trying to troubleshoot the cause of the right engine’s
failure, the left engine quit. Everyman landed the aircraft on
a river sand bar but it sank into ten feet of water.
Several years later Everyman flew a de Havilland Twin
Otter to deliver supplies to a remote location. When he
returned to home base and landed, the aircraft veered sharply
to the left, departed the runway, and ran into a marsh 375
feet from the runway. The airframe and engines sustained
considerable damage. Upon inspecting the wreck, accident
investigators found the nose wheel steering tiller in the fully
2-12

deflected position. Both the after takeoff and before landing
checklists require the tiller to be placed in the neutral position.
Everyman had overlooked this item.
Now, is Everyman accident prone or just unlucky? Skipping
details on a checklist appears to be a common theme in the
preceding accidents. While most pilots have made similar
mistakes, these errors were probably caught prior to a mishap
due to extra margin, good warning systems, a sharp copilot,
or just good luck. What makes a pilot less prone to accidents?
The successful pilot possesses the ability to concentrate,
manage workloads, and monitor and perform several
simultaneous tasks. Some of the latest psychological
screenings used in aviation test applicants for their ability
to multitask, measuring both accuracy, as well as the
individual’s ability to focus attention on several subjects
simultaneously. The FAA oversaw an extensive research
study on the similarities and dissimilarities of accident-free
pilots and those who were not. The project surveyed over
4,000 pilots, half of whom had “clean” records while the
other half had been involved in an accident.
Five traits were discovered in pilots prone to having
accidents. These pilots:
•

Have disdain toward rules

•

Have very high correlation between accidents on their
flying records and safety violations on their driving
records

•

Frequently fall into the “thrill and adventure seeking”
personality category

•

Are impulsive rather than methodical and disciplined,
both in their information gathering and in the speed
and selection of actions to be taken

•

Have a disregard for or tend to under utilize outside
sources of information, including copilots, flight
attendants, flight service personnel, flight instructors,
and ATC

The Decision-Making Process
An understanding of the decision-making process provides
the pilot with a foundation for developing ADM and SRM
skills. While some situations, such as engine failure, require an
immediate pilot response using established procedures, there is
usually time during a flight to analyze any changes that occur,
gather information, and assess risks before reaching a decision.
Risk management and risk intervention is much more than the
simple definitions of the terms might suggest. Risk management
and risk intervention are decision-making processes designed
to systematically identify hazards, assess the degree of risk, and

determine the best course of action. These processes involve
the identification of hazards, followed by assessments of the
risks, analysis of the controls, making control decisions, using
the controls, and monitoring the results.

arises. These decision points include preflight, pretakeoff,
hourly or at the midpoint of the flight, pre-descent, and just
prior to the final approach fix or for VFR operations, just
prior to entering the traffic pattern.

The steps leading to this decision constitute a decisionmaking process. Three models of a structured framework
for problem-solving and decision-making are the 5P, the 3P
using PAVE, CARE and TEAM, and the DECIDE models.
They provide assistance in organizing the decision process.
All these models have been identified as helpful to the single
pilot in organizing critical decisions.

The 5 Ps are based on the idea that pilots have essentially
five variables that impact his or her environment and forcing
him or her to make a single critical decision, or several less
critical decisions, that when added together can create a
critical outcome. These variables are the Plan, the Plane, the
Pilot, the Passengers, and the Programming. This concept
stems from the belief that current decision-making models
tended to be reactionary in nature. A change has to occur
and be detected to drive a risk management decision by the
pilot. For instance, many pilots complete risk management
sheets prior to takeoff. These form a catalog of risks
that may be encountered that day. Each of these risks is
assigned a numerical value. If the total of these numerical
values exceeds a predetermined level, the flight is altered or
cancelled. Informal research shows that while these are useful
documents for teaching risk factors, they are almost never
used outside of formal training programs. The 5P concept is
an attempt to take the information contained in those sheets
and in the other available models and use it.

Single-Pilot Resource Management (SRM)
Single-Pilot Resource Management (SRM) is about how to
gather information, analyze it, and make decisions. Learning
how to identify problems, analyze the information, and make
informed and timely decisions is not as straightforward as the
training involved in learning specific maneuvers. Learning
how to judge a situation and “how to think” in the endless
variety of situations encountered while flying out in the “real
world” is more difficult.
There is no one right answer in ADM, rather each pilot is
expected to analyze each situation in light of experience
level, personal minimums, and current physical and mental
readiness level, and make his or her own decision.
The 5 Ps Check
SRM sounds good on paper, but it requires a way for pilots
to understand and use it in their daily flights. One practical
application is called the “Five Ps (5 Ps).” [Figure 2-9] The
5 Ps consist of “the Plan, the Plane, the Pilot, the Passengers,
and the Programming.” Each of these areas consists of a set
of challenges and opportunities that every pilot encounters.
Each challenge and opportunity can substantially increase or
decrease the risk of successfully completing the flight based
on the pilot’s ability to make informed and timely decisions.
The 5 Ps are used to evaluate the pilot’s current situation at
key decision points during the flight or when an emergency
The SRM Five “Ps” Check

THE PLAN

THE PLANE

THE PILOT

THE

THE

PASSENGERS

PROGRAMMING

Figure 2-9. The Five Ps checklist.

The 5P concept relies on the pilot to adopt a “scheduled”
review of the critical variables at points in the flight where
decisions are most likely to be effective. For instance, the
easiest point to cancel a flight due to bad weather is before the
pilot and passengers walk out the door and load the aircraft.
So the first decision point is preflight in the flight planning
room, where all the information is readily available to make
a sound decision, and where communication and Fixed
Base Operator (FBO) services are readily available to make
alternate travel plans.
The second easiest point in the flight to make a critical safety
decision is just prior to takeoff. Few pilots have ever had
to make an “emergency takeoff.” While the point of the 5P
check is to help the pilot fly, the correct application of the 5
P before takeoff is to assist in making a reasoned go/no-go
decision based on all the information available. That decision
will usually be to “go,” with certain restrictions and changes,
but may also be a “no-go.” The key idea is that these two
points in the process of flying are critical go/no-go points on
each and every flight.
The third place to review the 5 Ps is at the midpoint of the
flight. Often, pilots may wait until the Automated Terminal
information Service (ATIS) is in range to check weather, yet,
at this point in the flight, many good options have already
passed behind the aircraft and pilot. Additionally, fatigue

2-13

and low-altitude hypoxia serve to rob the pilot of much of
his or her energy by the end of a long and tiring flight day.
This leads to a transition from a decision-making mode to an
acceptance mode on the part of the pilot. If the flight is longer
than 2 hours, the 5 P check should be conducted hourly.
The last two decision points are just prior to descent into the
terminal area and just prior to the final approach fix, or if
VFR, just prior to entering the traffic pattern as preparations
for landing commence. Most pilots execute approaches with
the expectation that they will land out of the approach every
time. A healthier approach requires the pilot to assume that
changing conditions (the 5 Ps again) will cause the pilot to
divert or execute the missed approach on every approach.
This keeps the pilot alert to all manner of conditions that
may increase risk and threaten the safe conduct of the flight.
Diverting from cruise altitude saves fuel, allows unhurried
use of the autopilot and is less reactive in nature. Diverting
from the final approach fix, while more difficult, still allows
the pilot to plan and coordinate better, rather than executing
a futile missed approach. Let’s look at a detailed discussion
of each of the Five Ps.

The Plan
The “Plan” can also be called the mission or the task. It
contains the basic elements of cross-country planning,
weather, route, fuel, publications currency, etc. The “Plan”
should be reviewed and updated several times during the
course of the flight. A delayed takeoff due to maintenance,
fast moving weather, and a short notice TFR may all radically
alter the plan. The “plan” is not only about the flight plan,
but also all the events that surround the flight and allow the
pilot to accomplish the mission. The plan is always being
updated and modified and is especially responsive to changes
in the other four remaining Ps. If for no other reason, the 5 P
check reminds the pilot that the day’s flight plan is real life
and subject to change at any time.
Obviously, weather is a huge part of any plan. The addition
of datalink weather information gives the advanced avionics
pilot a real advantage in inclement weather, but only if the
pilot is trained to retrieve and evaluate the weather in real
time without sacrificing situational awareness. And of course,
weather information should drive a decision, even if that
decision is to continue on the current plan. Pilots of aircraft
without datalink weather should get updated weather in flight
through an FSS and/or Flight Watch.

The Plane
Both the “plan” and the “plane” are fairly familiar to most
pilots. The “plane” consists of the usual array of mechanical
and cosmetic issues that every aircraft pilot, owner, or
operator can identify. With the advent of advanced avionics,
2-14

the “plane” has expanded to include database currency,
automation status, and emergency backup systems that were
unknown a few years ago. Much has been written about
single pilot IFR flight, both with and without an autopilot.
While this is a personal decision, it is just that—a decision.
Low IFR in a non-autopilot equipped aircraft may depend
on several of the other Ps to be discussed. Pilot proficiency,
currency, and fatigue are among them.

The Pilot
Flying, especially when business transportation is involved,
can expose a pilot to risks such as high altitudes, long trips
requiring significant endurance, and challenging weather.
Advanced avionics, when installed, can expose a pilot to high
stresses because of the inherent additional capabilities which
are available. When dealing with pilot risk, it is always best
to consult the “IMSAFE” checklist (see page 2-6).
The combination of late nights, pilot fatigue, and the effects
of sustained flight above 5,000 feet may cause pilots to
become less discerning, less critical of information, less
decisive, and more compliant and accepting. Just as the most
critical portion of the flight approaches (for instance a night
instrument approach, in the weather, after a 4-hour flight),
the pilot’s guard is down the most. The 5 P process helps a
pilot recognize the physiological challenges that they may
face towards the end of the flight prior to takeoff and allows
them to update personal conditions as the flight progresses.
Once risks are identified, the pilot is in a better place to
make alternate plans that lessen the effect of these factors
and provide a safer solution.

The Passengers
One of the key differences between CRM and SRM is the
way passengers interact with the pilot. The pilot of a highly
capable single-engine aircraft maintains a much more personal
relationship with the passengers as he/she is positioned within
an arm’s reach of them throughout the flight.
The necessity of the passengers to make airline connections
or important business meetings in a timely manner enters
into this pilot’s decision-making loop. Consider a flight
to Dulles Airport in which and the passengers, both close
friends and business partners, need to get to Washington,
D.C. for an important meeting. The weather is VFR all the
way to southern Virginia, then turns to low IFR as the pilot
approaches Dulles. A pilot employing the 5 P approach
might consider reserving a rental car at an airport in northern
North Carolina or southern Virginia to coincide with a
refueling stop. Thus, the passengers have a way to get to
Washington, and the pilot has an out to avoid being pressured
into continuing the flight if the conditions do not improve.

Passengers can also be pilots. If no one is designated as pilot
in command (PIC) and unplanned circumstances arise, the
decision-making styles of several self-confident pilots may
come into conflict.
Pilots also need to understand that non-pilots may not
understand the level of risk involved in flight. There is an
element of risk in every flight. That is why SRM calls it risk
management, not risk elimination. While a pilot may feel
comfortable with the risk present in a night IFR flight, the
passengers may not. A pilot employing SRM should ensure
the passengers are involved in the decision-making and given
tasks and duties to keep them busy and involved. If, upon a
factual description of the risks present, the passengers decide
to buy an airline ticket or rent a car, then a good decision has
generally been made. This discussion also allows the pilot
to move past what he or she thinks the passengers want to
do and find out what they actually want to do. This removes
self-induced pressure from the pilot.

The Programming
The advanced avionics aircraft adds an entirely new
dimension to the way GA aircraft are flown. The electronic
instrument displays, GPS, and autopilot reduce pilot
workload and increase pilot situational awareness. While
programming and operation of these devices are fairly
simple and straightforward, unlike the analog instruments
they replace, they tend to capture the pilot’s attention and
hold it for long periods of time. To avoid this phenomenon,
the pilot should plan in advance when and where the
programming for approaches, route changes, and airport
information gathering should be accomplished, as well as
times it should not. Pilot familiarity with the equipment, the
route, the local ATC environment, and personal capabilities
vis-à-vis the automation should drive when, where, and how
the automation is programmed and used.
The pilot should also consider what his or her capabilities
are in response to last minute changes of the approach (and
the reprogramming required) and ability to make large-scale
changes (a reroute for instance) while hand flying the aircraft.
Since formats are not standardized, simply moving from one
manufacturer’s equipment to another should give the pilot
pause and require more conservative planning and decisions.

Purpose

Strategic

Used in a complex operation (e.g.,
introduction of new equipment); involves
research, use of analysis tools, formal
testing, or long term tracking of risks.

The SRM process is simple. At least five times before
and during the flight, the pilot should review and consider
the “Plan, the Plane, the Pilot, the Passengers, and the
Programming” and make the appropriate decision required
by the current situation. It is often said that failure to make
a decision is a decision. Under SRM and the 5 Ps, even the
decision to make no changes to the current plan is made
through a careful consideration of all the risk factors present.
Perceive, Process, Perform (3P) Model
The Perceive, Process, Perform (3P) model for ADM offers
a simple, practical, and systematic approach that can be used
during all phases of flight. To use it, the pilot will:
•

Perceive the given set of circumstances for a flight

•

Process by evaluating their impact on flight safety

•

Perform by implementing the best course of action

Use the Perceive, Process, Perform, and Evaluate method as
a continuous model for every aeronautical decision that you
make. Although human beings will inevitably make mistakes,
anything that you can do to recognize and minimize potential
threats to your safety will make you a better pilot.
Depending upon the nature of the activity and the time
available, risk management processing can take place in
any of three timeframes. [Figure 2-10] Most flight training
activities take place in the “time-critical” timeframe for
risk management. The six steps of risk management can be
combined into an easy-to-remember 3P model for practical
risk management: Perceive, Process, Perform with the PAVE,
CARE and TEAM checklists. Pilots can help perceive
hazards by using the PAVE checklist of: Pilot, Aircraft,
enVironment, and External pressures. They can process
hazards by using the CARE checklist of: Consequences,
Alternatives, Reality, External factors. Finally, pilots can
perform risk management by using the TEAM choice list
of: Transfer, Eliminate, Accept, or Mitigate.

PAVE Checklist: Identify Hazards and Personal
Minimums
In the first step, the goal is to develop situational awareness
by perceiving hazards, which are present events, objects, or
circumstances that could contribute to an undesired future
event. In this step, the pilot will systematically identify and

Deliberate

Time-Critical

Uses experience and brainstorming to identify “On the fly” mental or verbal review using
hazards, assess risks, and develop controls
the basic risk management process
for planning operations, review of standard
during the execution phase of an activity.
operating or training procedures, etc.

Figure 2-10. Risk management processing can take place in any of three timeframes.

2-15

list hazards associated with all aspects of the flight: Pilot,
Aircraft, enVironment, and External pressures, which makes
up the PAVE checklist. [Figure 2-11] For each element,
ask “what could hurt me, my passengers, or my aircraft?”
All four elements combine and interact to create a unique
situation for any flight. Pay special attention to the pilotaircraft combination, and consider whether the combined
“pilot-aircraft team” is capable of the mission you want to fly.
For example, you may be a very experienced and proficient
pilot, but your weather flying ability is still limited if you
are flying a 1970s-model aircraft with no weather avoidance
gear. On the other hand, you may have a new technically
advanced aircraft with moving map GPS, weather datalink,
and autopilot—but if you do not have much weather flying
experience or practice in using this kind of equipment, you
cannot rely on the airplane’s capability to compensate for
your own lack of experience.

CARE Checklist: Review Hazards and Evaluate Risks
In the second step, the goal is to process this information to
determine whether the identified hazards constitute risk, which
is defined as the future impact of a hazard that is not controlled
or eliminated. The degree of risk posed by a given hazard
can be measured in terms of exposure (number of people or
resources affected), severity (extent of possible loss), and
probability (the likelihood that a hazard will cause a loss). The
goal is to evaluate their impact on the safety of your flight,
and consider “why must I CARE about these circumstances?”
For each hazard that you perceived in step one, process by
using the CARE checklist of: Consequences, Alternatives,
Reality, External factors. [Figure 2-12] For example, let's
evaluate a night flight to attend a business meeting:
Consequences—departing after a full workday creates
fatigue and pressure

Pilots can perceive hazards by using the PAVE checklist:

Pilot
Gayle is a healthy and well-rested private pilot with
approximately 300 hours total flight time. Hazards include her
lack of overall and cross-country experience and the fact that
she has not flown at all in 2 months.
Aircraft
Although it does not have a panel-mount GPS or weather
avoidance gear, the aircraft—a C182 Skylane with long-range
fuel tanks—is in good mechanical condition with no inoperative
equipment. The instrument panel is a standard “six-pack.”

Alternatives—delay until morning; reschedule
meeting; drive
Reality —dangers and distractions of fatigue could
lead to an accident
External pressures—business meeting at destination
might influence me
A good rule of thumb for the processing phase: if you find
yourself saying that it will “probably” be okay, it is definitely
time for a solid reality check. If you are worried about missing
a meeting, be realistic about how that pressure will affect
not just your initial go/no-go decision, but also your inflight
decisions to continue the flight or divert.

TEAM Checklist: Choose and Implement Risk
Controls
Once you have perceived a hazard (step one) and processed
its impact on flight safety (step two), it is time to move to the
third step, perform. Perform risk management by using the
TEAM checklist of: Transfer, Eliminate, Accept, Mitigate
to deal with each factor. [Figure 2-13]
Transfer—Should this risk decision be transferred to
someone else (e.g., do you need to consult the chief
flight instructor?)
Eliminate—Is there a way to eliminate the hazard?
Accept—Do the benefits of accepting risk outweigh
the costs?
Mitigate—What can you do to mitigate the risk?
The goal is to perform by taking action to eliminate hazards
or mitigate risk, and then continuously evaluate the outcome
of this action. With the example of low ceilings at destination,
for instance, the pilot can perform good ADM by selecting
a suitable alternate, knowing where to find good weather,
EnVironment
Departure and destination airports have long runways.
Weather is the main hazard. Although it is VFR, it is a typical
summer day in the Mid-Atlantic region: hot (near 90 °F) hazy
(visibility 7 miles), and humid with a density altitude of 2,500
feet. Weather at the destination airport (located in the
mountains) is still IMC but forecast to improve to visual
meteorological conditions (VMC) prior to her arrival. En route
weather is VMC, but there is an AIRMET Sierra for pockets of
IMC over mountain ridges along the proposed route of flight.
External pressures
Gayle is making the trip to spend a weekend with relatives she
does not see very often. Her family is very excited and has
made a number of plans for the visit.

Figure 2-11. A real-world example of how the 3P model guides decisions on a cross-country trip using the PAVE checklist.

2-16

Pilots can perceive hazards by using the CARE checklist:
Pilot
• Consequences: Gayle’s inexperience and lack of recent
flight time create some risks for an accident, primarily because
she plans to travel over mountains on a hazy day and land
at an unfamiliar mountain airport that is still in IMC
conditions.
• Alternatives: Gayle might mitigate the pilot-related risk by
hiring a CFI to accompany her and provide dual crosscountry instruction. An added benefit is the opportunity to
broaden her flying experience in safe conditions.
• Reality: Accepting the reality that limited experience can
create additional risks is a key part of sound risk management
and mitigation.
• External Factors: Like many pilots, Gayle must contend with
the emotional pressure associated with acknowledging that
her skill and experience levels may be lower than she would
like them to be. Pride can be a powerful external factor!
Environment
• Consequences: For a pilot whose experience consists
mostly of local flights in good VMC, launching a long crosscountry flight over mountainous terrain in hazy conditions
could lead to pilot disorientation and increase the risk of an
accident.
• Alternatives: Options include postponing the trip until the
visibility improves, or modifying the route to avoid extended
periods of time over the mountains.
• Reality: Hazy conditions and mountainous terrain clearly
create risks for an inexperienced VFR-only pilot.
• External Factors: Few pilots are immune to the pressure of
“get-there-itis,” which can sometimes induce a decision to
launch or continue in less than ideal weather conditions.

Aircraft
• Consequences: This area presents low risk because the
aircraft is in excellent mechanical condition and Gayle is
familiar with its avionics.
• Alternatives: Had there been a problem with her aircraft,
Gayle might have considered renting another plane from her
flight school. Bear in mind, however, that alternatives
sometimes create new hazards. In this instance, there may
be hazards associated with flying an unfamiliar aircraft with
different avionics.
• Reality: It is important to recognize the reality of an aircraft’s
mechanical condition. If you find a maintenance discrepancy
and then find yourself saying that it is “probably” okay to fly
with it anyway, you need to revisit the consequences part of
this checklist.
• External Factors: Pilot decision-making can sometimes be
influenced by the external pressure of needing to return the
airplane to the FBO by a certain date and time. Because
Gayle owns the airplane, there was no such pressure in this
case.
External pressures
• Consequences: Any number of factors can create the risk of
emotional pressure from a “get-there” mentality. In Gayle’s
case, the consequences of her strong desire to visit family,
her family’s expectations, and personal pride could induce
her to accept unnecessary risks.
• Alternatives: Gayle clearly needs to develop a mitigating
strategy for each of the external factors associated with this
trip.
• Reality: Pilots sometimes tend to discount or ignore the
potential impact of these external factors. Gayle’s open
acknowledgement of these factors (e.g., “I might be
pressured into pressing on so my mother won’t have to
worry about our late arrival.”) is a critical element of effective
risk management.
• External Factors: (see above)

Figure 2-12. A real-world examples of how the 3P model guides decisions on a cross-country trip using the CARE checklist.

and carrying sufficient fuel to reach it. This course of action
would mitigate the risk. The pilot also has the option to
eliminate it entirely by waiting for better weather.
Once the pilot has completed the 3P decision process and
selected a course of action, the process begins anew because
now the set of circumstances brought about by the course of
action requires analysis. The decision-making process is a
continuous loop of perceiving, processing, and performing.
With practice and consistent use, running through the 3P
cycle can become a habit that is as smooth, continuous, and
automatic as a well-honed instrument scan. This basic set
of practical risk management tools can be used to improve
risk management.
Your mental willingness to follow through on safe decisions,
especially those that require delay or diversion is critical. You
can bulk up your mental muscles by:

•

Using personal minimums checklist to make some
decisions in advance of the flight. To develop a good
personal minimums checklist, you need to assess your
abilities and capabilities in a non-flying environment,
when there is no pressure to make a specific trip. Once
developed, a personal minimums checklist will give
you a clear and concise reference point for making
your go/no-go or continue/discontinue decisions.

•

In addition to having personal minimums, some pilots
also like to use a preflight risk assessment checklist to
help with the ADM and risk management processes.
This kind of form assigns numbers to certain risks
and situations, which can make it easier to see when
a particular flight involves a higher level of risk

•

Develop a list of good alternatives during your
processing phase. In marginal weather, for instance,
you might mitigate the risk by identifying a reasonable

2-17

Pilots can perform risk management by using the TEAM checklist:
Pilot
To manage the risk associated with her inexperience and lack
of recent flight time, Gayle can:
• Transfer the risk entirely by having another pilot act as PIC.
• Eliminate the risk by canceling the trip.
• Accept the risk and fly anyway.
• Mitigate the risk by flying with another pilot.
Gayle chooses to mitigate the major risk by hiring a CFI to
accompany her and provide dual cross-country instruction.
An added benefit is the opportunity to broaden her flying
experience.

Aircraft
To manage risk associated with any doubts about the aircraft’s
mechanical condition, Gayle can:
• Transfer the risk by using a different airplane.
• Eliminate the risk by canceling the trip.
• Accept the risk.
• Mitigate the remaining (residual) risk through review of
aircraft performance and careful preflight inspection.
Since she finds no problems with the aircraft’s mechanical
condition, Gayle chooses to mitigate any remaining risk
through careful preflight inspection of the aircraft.

Environment
To manage the risk associated with hazy conditions and
mountainous terrain, Gayle can:
• Transfer the risk of VFR in these conditions by asking an
instrument-rated pilot to fly the trip under IFR.
• Eliminate the risk by canceling the trip.
• Accept the risk.
• Mitigate the risk by careful preflight planning, filing a VFR
flight plan, requesting VFR flight following, and using
resources such as Flight Watch.

External pressures
To mitigate the risk of emotional pressure from family
expectations that can drive a “get-there” mentality, Gayle can:
• Transfer the risk by having her co-pilot act as PIC and make
the continue/divert decision.
• Eliminate the risk by canceling the trip.
• Accept the risk.
• Mitigate the risk by managing family expectations and
making alternative arrangements in the event of diversion to
another airport.

Detailed preflight planning must be a vital part of Gayle’s
weather risk mitigation strategy. The most direct route would
put her over mountains for most of the trip. Because of the
thick haze and pockets of IMC over mountains, Gayle might
mitigate the risk by modifying the route to fly over valleys. This
change will add 30 minutes to her estimated time of arrival
(ETA), but the extra time is a small price to pay for avoiding
possible IMC over mountains. Because her destination airport
is IMC at the time of departure, Gayle needs to establish that
VFR conditions exist at other airports within easy driving
distance of her original destination. In addition, Gayle should
review basic information (e.g., traffic pattern altitude, runway
layout, frequencies) for these alternate airports. To further
mitigate risk and practice good cockpit resource management,
Gayle should file a VFR flight plan, use VFR flight following,
and call Flight Watch to get weather updates en route. Finally,
basic functions on her handheld GPS should also be practiced.

Gayle and her co-pilot choose to address this risk by agreeing
that each pilot has a veto on continuing the flight, and that they
will divert if either becomes uncomfortable with flight conditions.
Because the destination airport is still IMC at the time of
departure, Gayle establishes a specific point in the trip—an en
route VORTAC located between the destination airport and the
two alternates—as the logical place for her “final” continue/
divert decision. Rather than give her family a specific ETA that
might make Gayle feel pressured to meet the schedule, she
manages her family’s expectations by advising them that she
will call when she arrives.

Figure 2-13. A real-world example of how the 3P model guides decisions on a cross-country trip using the TEAM checklist.

alternative airport for every 25–30 nautical mile
segment of your route.
•

Preflight your passengers by preparing them for the
possibility of delay and diversion, and involve them
in your evaluation process.

•

Another important tool—overlooked by many pilots—
is a good post-flight analysis. When you have safely
secured the airplane, take the time to review and
analyze the flight as objectively as you can. Mistakes
and judgment errors are inevitable; the most important
thing is for you to recognize, analyze, and learn from
them before your next flight.

2-18

The DECIDE Model
Using the acronym “DECIDE,” the six-step process DECIDE
Model is another continuous loop process that provides the
pilot with a logical way of making decisions. [Figure 2-14]
DECIDE means to Detect, Estimate, Choose a course of
action, Identify solutions, Do the necessary actions, and
Evaluate the effects of the actions.
First, consider a recent accident involving a Piper Apache (PA23). The aircraft was substantially damaged during impact
with terrain at a local airport in Alabama. The certificated
airline transport pilot (ATP) received minor injuries and the
certificated private pilot was not injured. The private pilot

was receiving a checkride from the ATP (who was also a
designated examiner) for a commercial pilot certificate with
a multi-engine rating. After performing airwork at altitude,
they returned to the airport and the private pilot performed a
single-engine approach to a full stop landing. He then taxied
back for takeoff, performed a short field takeoff, and then
joined the traffic pattern to return for another landing. During
the approach for the second landing, the ATP simulated a right

engine failure by reducing power on the right engine to zero
thrust. This caused the aircraft to yaw right.
The procedure to identify the failed engine is a two-step
process. First, adjust the power to the maximum controllable
level on both engines. Because the left engine is the only
engine delivering thrust, the yaw increases to the right, which
necessitates application of additional left rudder application.

Aeronautical Decision-Making
A. Analytical

B. Automatic/Naturalistic

Situation

Pilot

Enviroment

Aircraft

Detection

Pilot

Aircraft

Enviroment

External factors

External factors

Detection

Evaluation of event
Evaluation of event
• Risk or hazard
• Potential outcomes
• Capabilities of pilot
• Aircraft capabilities
• Outside factors

• Risk to flight
• Pilot training
• Pilot experience

Outcome desired

Solutions to get you there
Solution 1
Solution 2
Solution 3
Solution 4

Outcome desired

Take action
What is best action to do

Effect of decision
Successful
Problem remains

Done

The DECIDE model
1.
2.
3.
4
5.
6.

Figure 2-14. The DECIDE model has been recognized worldwide. Its application is illustrated in column A while automatic/naturalistic

decision-making is shown in column B.

2-19

The failed engine is the side that requires no rudder pressure,
in this case the right engine. Second, having identified the
failed right engine, the procedure is to feather the right engine
and adjust power to maintain descent angle to a landing.
However, in this case the pilot feathered the left engine because
he assumed the engine failure was a left engine failure. During
twin-engine training, the left engine out is emphasized more
than the right engine because the left engine on most light
twins is the critical engine. This is due to multiengine airplanes
being subject to P-factor, as are single-engine airplanes.
The descending propeller blade of each engine will produce
greater thrust than the ascending blade when the airplane is
operated under power and at positive angles of attack. The
descending propeller blade of the right engine is also a greater
distance from the center of gravity, and therefore has a longer
moment arm than the descending propeller blade of the left
engine. As a result, failure of the left engine will result in the
most asymmetrical thrust (adverse yaw) because the right
engine will be providing the remaining thrust. Many twins are
designed with a counter-rotating right engine. With this design,
the degree of asymmetrical thrust is the same with either engine
inoperative. Neither engine is more critical than the other.
Since the pilot never executed the first step of identifying
which engine failed, he feathered the left engine and set the
right engine at zero thrust. This essentially restricted the
aircraft to a controlled glide. Upon realizing that he was
not going to make the runway, the pilot increased power to
both engines causing an enormous yaw to the left (the left
propeller was feathered) whereupon the aircraft started to turn
left. In desperation, the instructor closed both throttles and
the aircraft hit the ground and was substantially damaged.

detecting the problem. In the previous example, the change
that occurred was a yaw.

Estimate (the Need To React)
In the engine-out example, the aircraft yawed right, the pilot
was on final approach, and the problem warranted a prompt
solution. In many cases, overreaction and fixation excludes
a safe outcome. For example, what if the cabin door of a
Mooney suddenly opened in flight while the aircraft climbed
through 1,500 feet on a clear sunny day? The sudden opening
would be alarming, but the perceived hazard the open door
presents is quickly and effectively assessed as minor. In
fact, the door’s opening would not impact safe flight and
can almost be disregarded. Most likely, a pilot would return
to the airport to secure the door after landing.
The pilot flying on a clear day faced with this minor problem
may rank the open cabin door as a low risk. What about
the pilot on an IFR climb out in IMC conditions with light
intermittent turbulence in rain who is receiving an amended
clearance from ATC? The open cabin door now becomes
a higher risk factor. The problem has not changed, but the
perception of risk a pilot assigns it changes because of the
multitude of ongoing tasks and the environment. Experience,
discipline, awareness, and knowledge influences how a pilot
ranks a problem.

Choose (a Course of Action)
After the problem has been identified and its impact
estimated, the pilot must determine the desirable outcome
and choose a course of action. In the case of the multiengine
pilot given the simulated failed engine, the desired objective
is to safely land the airplane.

This case is interesting because it highlights two particular
issues. First, taking action without forethought can be just
as dangerous as taking no action at all. In this case, the
pilot’s actions were incorrect; yet, there was sufficient
time to take the necessary steps to analyze the simulated
emergency. The second and more subtle issue is that decisions
made under pressure are sometimes executed based upon
limited experience and the actions taken may be incorrect,
incomplete, or insufficient to handle the situation.

Identify (Solutions)

Detect (the Problem)

Do (the Necessary Actions)

Problem detection is the first step in the decision-making
process. It begins with recognizing a change occurred or an
expected change did not occur. A problem is perceived first
by the senses and then it is distinguished through insight
and experience. These same abilities, as well as an objective
analysis of all available information, are used to determine
the nature and severity of the problem. One critical error
made during the decision-making process is incorrectly

Evaluate (the Effect of the Action)

2-20

The pilot formulates a plan that will take him or her to the
objective. Sometimes, there may be only one course of action
available. In the case of the engine failure already at 500
feet or below, the pilot solves the problem by identifying
one or more solutions that lead to a successful outcome. It is
important for the pilot not to become fixated on the process
to the exclusion of making a decision.

Once pathways to resolution are identified, the pilot selects the
most suitable one for the situation. The multiengine pilot given
the simulated failed engine must now safely land the aircraft.

Finally, after implementing a solution, evaluate the decision
to see if it was correct. If the action taken does not provide
the desired results, the process may have to be repeated.

Decision-Making in a Dynamic Environment pitfalls that come with the development of pilot experience.
A solid approach to decision-making is through the use of
analytical models, such as the 5 Ps, 3P, and DECIDE. Good
decisions result when pilots gather all available information,
review it, analyze the options, rate the options, select a course
of action, and evaluate that course of action for correctness.
In some situations, there is not always time to make decisions
based on analytical decision-making skills. A good example
is a quarterback whose actions are based upon a highly fluid
and changing situation. He intends to execute a plan, but new
circumstances dictate decision-making on the fly. This type
of decision-making is called automatic decision-making or
naturalized decision-making. [Figure 2-14B]
Automatic Decision-Making
In an emergency situation, a pilot might not survive if he or
she rigorously applies analytical models to every decision
made as there is not enough time to go through all the options.
Under these circumstances he or she should attempt to find
the best possible solution to every problem.
For the past several decades, research into how people
actually make decisions has revealed that when pressed for
time, experts faced with a task loaded with uncertainty first
assess whether the situation strikes them as familiar. Rather
than comparing the pros and cons of different approaches,
they quickly imagine how one or a few possible courses of
action in such situations will play out. Experts take the first
workable option they can find. While it may not be the best of
all possible choices, it often yields remarkably good results.
The terms “naturalistic” and “automatic decision-making”
have been coined to describe this type of decision-making.
The ability to make automatic decisions holds true for a
range of experts from firefighters to chess players. It appears
the expert’s ability hinges on the recognition of patterns and
consistencies that clarify options in complex situations. Experts
appear to make provisional sense of a situation, without
actually reaching a decision, by launching experience-based
actions that in turn trigger creative revisions.
This is a reflexive type of decision-making anchored in
training and experience and is most often used in times of
emergencies when there is no time to practice analytical
decision-making. Naturalistic or automatic decision-making
improves with training and experience, and a pilot will find
himself or herself using a combination of decision-making
tools that correlate with individual experience and training.

Operational Pitfalls
Although more experienced pilots are likely to make more
automatic decisions, there are tendencies or operational

These are classic behavioral traps into which pilots have
been known to fall. More experienced pilots, as a rule, try
to complete a flight as planned, please passengers, and meet
schedules. The desire to meet these goals can have an adverse
effect on safety and contribute to an unrealistic assessment
of piloting skills. All experienced pilots have fallen prey to,
or have been tempted by, one or more of these tendencies in
their flying careers. These dangerous tendencies or behavior
patterns, which must be identified and eliminated, include
the operational pitfalls shown in Figure 2-15.
Stress Management
Everyone is stressed to some degree almost all of the time. A
certain amount of stress is good since it keeps a person alert
and prevents complacency. Effects of stress are cumulative
and, if the pilot does not cope with them in an appropriate
way, they can eventually add up to an intolerable burden.
Performance generally increases with the onset of stress,
peaks, and then begins to fall off rapidly as stress levels
exceed a person’s ability to cope. The ability to make
effective decisions during flight can be impaired by stress.
There are two categories of stress—acute and chronic. These
are both explained in Chapter 17, “Aeromedical Factors.”
Factors referred to as stressors can increase a pilot’s risk of
error in the flight deck. [Figure 2-16] Remember the cabin
door that suddenly opened in flight on the Mooney climbing
through 1,500 feet on a clear sunny day? It may startle the
pilot, but the stress would wane when it became apparent
the situation was not a serious hazard. Yet, if the cabin door
opened in IMC conditions, the stress level makes significant
impact on the pilot’s ability to cope with simple tasks. The
key to stress management is to stop, think, and analyze before
jumping to a conclusion. There is usually time to think before
drawing unnecessary conclusions.
There are several techniques to help manage the accumulation
of life stresses and prevent stress overload. For example, to
help reduce stress levels, set aside time for relaxation each
day or maintain a program of physical fitness. To prevent
stress overload, learn to manage time more effectively to
avoid pressures imposed by getting behind schedule and not
meeting deadlines.
Use of Resources
To make informed decisions during flight operations, a pilot
must also become aware of the resources found inside and
outside the flight deck. Since useful tools and sources of
information may not always be readily apparent, learning
to recognize these resources is an essential part of ADM
training. Resources must not only be identified, but a pilot
must also develop the skills to evaluate whether there is
2-21

OperationalPitfalls
pitfalls
Operational
Peer pressure
Poor decision-making may be based upon an emotional response to peers, rather than evaluating a situation objectively.
Mindset
A pilot displays mind set through an inability to recognize and cope with changes in a given situation.
Get-there-itis
This disposition impairs pilot judgment through a fixation on the original goal or destination, combined with a disregard for any
alternative course of action.
Duck-under syndrome
A pilot may be tempted to make it into an airport by descending below minimums during an approach. There may be a belief that
there is a built-in margin of error in every approach procedure, or a pilot may want to admit that the landing cannot be completed
and a missed approach must be initiated.
Scud running
This occurs when a pilot tries to maintain visual contact with the terrain at low altitudes while instrument conditions exist.
Continuing visual flight rules (VFR) into instrument conditions
Spatial disorientation or collision with ground/obstacles may occur when a pilot continues VFR into instrument conditions. This can
be even more dangerous if the pilot is not instrument rated or current.
Getting behind the aircraft
This pitfall can be caused by allowing events or the situation to control pilot actions. A constant state of surprise at what happens
next may be exhibited when the pilot is getting behind the aircraft.
Loss of positional or situational awareness
In extreme cases, when a pilot gets behind the aircraft, a loss of positional or situational awareness may result. The pilot may not
know the aircraft’s geographical location or may be unable to recognize deteriorating circumstances.
Operating without adequate fuel reserves
Ignoring minimum fuel reserve requirements is generally the result of overconfidence, lack of flight planning, or disregarding
applicable regulations.
Descent below the minimum en route altitude
The duck-under syndrome, as mentioned above, can also occur during the en route portion of an IFR flight.
Flying outside the envelope
The assumed high performance capability of a particular aircraft may cause a mistaken belief that it can meet the demands
imposed by a pilot’s overestimated flying skills.
Neglect of flight planning, preflight inspections, and checklists
A pilot may rely on short- and long-term memory, regular flying skills, and familiar routes instead of established procedures and
published checklists. This can be particularly true of experienced pilots.
Figure 2-15. Typical operational pitfalls requiring pilot awareness.
Stressors
Environmental
Conditions associated with the environment, such as temperature and humidity extremes, noise, vibration, and lack of oxygen.
Physiological stress
Physical conditions, such as fatigue, lack of physical fitness, sleep loss, missed meals (leading to low blood sugar levels), and
illness.
Psychological stress
Social or emotional factors, such as a death in the family, a divorce, a sick child, or a demotion at work. This type of stress may
also be related to mental workload, such as analyzing a problem, navigating an aircraft, or making decisions.
Figure 2-16. System stressors. Environmental, physiological, and psychological stress are factors that affect decision-making skills.

These stressors have a profound impact especially during periods of high workload.

2-22

time to use a particular resource and the impact its use will
have upon the safety of flight. For example, the assistance
of ATC may be very useful if a pilot becomes lost, but in
an emergency situation, there may be no time available to
contact ATC.

Internal Resources
One of the most underutilized resources may be the
person in the right seat, even if the passenger has no flying
experience. When appropriate, the PIC can ask passengers
to assist with certain tasks, such as watching for traffic or
reading checklist items. The following are some other ways
a passenger can assist:
•

Provide information in an irregular situation,
especially if familiar with flying. A strange smell or
sound may alert a passenger to a potential problem.

•

Confirm after the pilot that the landing gear is down.

•

Learn to look at the altimeter for a given altitude in a
descent.

•

Listen to logic or lack of logic.

Also, the process of a verbal briefing (which can happen
whether or not passengers are aboard) can help the PIC in
the decision-making process. For example, assume a pilot
provides a lone passenger a briefing of the forecast landing
weather before departure. When the Automatic Terminal
Information Service (ATIS) is picked up, the weather
has significantly changed. The discussion of this forecast
change can lead the pilot to reexamine his or her activities
and decision-making. [Figure 2-17] Other valuable internal
resources include ingenuity, aviation knowledge, and flying
skill. Pilots can increase flight deck resources by improving
these characteristics.
When flying alone, another internal resource is verbal
communication. It has been established that verbal
communication reinforces an activity; touching an object
while communicating further enhances the probability an
activity has been accomplished. For this reason, many solo
pilots read the checklist out loud; when they reach critical
items, they touch the switch or control. For example, to
ascertain the landing gear is down, the pilot can read the
checklist. But, if he or she touches the gear handle during the
process, a safe extension of the landing gear is confirmed.
It is necessary for a pilot to have a thorough understanding
of all the equipment and systems in the aircraft being flown.
Lack of knowledge, such as knowing if the oil pressure
gauge is direct reading or uses a sensor, is the difference
between making a wise decision or poor one that leads to
a tragic error.

Figure 2-17. When possible, have a passenger reconfirm that critical

tasks are completed.

Checklists are essential flight deck internal resources. They
are used to verify the aircraft instruments and systems are
checked, set, and operating properly, as well as ensuring
the proper procedures are performed if there is a system
malfunction or in-flight emergency. Students reluctant to
use checklists can be reminded that pilots at all levels of
experience refer to checklists, and that the more advanced the
aircraft is, the more crucial checklists become. In addition, the
pilot’s operating handbook (POH) is required to be carried on
board the aircraft and is essential for accurate flight planning
and resolving in-flight equipment malfunctions. However,
the most valuable resource a pilot has is the ability to manage
workload whether alone or with others.

External Resources
ATC and flight service specialists are the best external
resources during flight. In order to promote the safe, orderly
flow of air traffic around airports and, along flight routes, the
ATC provides pilots with traffic advisories, radar vectors,
and assistance in emergency situations. Although it is the
PIC’s responsibility to make the flight as safe as possible,
a pilot with a problem can request assistance from ATC.
[Figure 2-18] For example, if a pilot needs to level off, be

Figure 2-18. Controllers work to make flights as safe as possible.

2-23

given a vector, or decrease speed, ATC assists and becomes
integrated as part of the crew. The services provided by ATC
can not only decrease pilot workload, but also help pilots
make informed in-flight decisions.
The Flight Service Stations (FSSs) are air traffic facilities
that provide pilot briefing, en route communications, VFR
search and rescue services, assist lost aircraft and aircraft
in emergency situations, relay ATC clearances, originate
Notices to Airmen (NOTAM), broadcast aviation weather
and National Airspace System (NAS) information, receive
and process IFR flight plans, and monitor navigational aids
(NAVAIDs). In addition, at selected locations, FSSs provide
En Route Flight Advisory Service (Flight Watch), issue
airport advisories, and advise Customs and Immigration of
transborder flights. Selected FSSs in Alaska also provide
TWEB recordings and take weather observations.

Situational Awareness
Situational awareness is the accurate perception and
understanding of all the factors and conditions within
the five fundamental risk elements (flight, pilot, aircraft,
environment, and type of operation that comprise any given
aviation situation) that affect safety before, during, and after
the flight. Monitoring radio communications for traffic,
weather discussion, and ATC communication can enhance
situational awareness by helping the pilot develop a mental
picture of what is happening.
Maintaining situational awareness requires an understanding
of the relative significance of all flight related factors and their
future impact on the flight. When a pilot understands what is
going on and has an overview of the total operation, he or she
is not fixated on one perceived significant factor. Not only
is it important for a pilot to know the aircraft’s geographical
location, it is also important he or she understand what is
happening. For instance, while flying above Richmond,
Virginia, toward Dulles Airport or Leesburg, the pilot
should know why he or she is being vectored and be able to
anticipate spatial location. A pilot who is simply making turns
without understanding why has added an additional burden
to his or her management in the event of an emergency. To
maintain situational awareness, all of the skills involved in
ADM are used.
Obstacles to Maintaining Situational Awareness
Fatigue, stress, and work overload can cause a pilot to fixate
on a single perceived important item and reduce an overall
situational awareness of the flight. A contributing factor
in many accidents is a distraction that diverts the pilot’s
attention from monitoring the instruments or scanning
outside the aircraft. Many flight deck distractions begin as a
minor problem, such as a gauge that is not reading correctly,
2-24

but result in accidents as the pilot diverts attention to the
perceived problem and neglects proper control of the aircraft.

Workload Management
Effective workload management ensures essential operations
are accomplished by planning, prioritizing, and sequencing
tasks to avoid work overload. [Figure 2-19] As experience
is gained, a pilot learns to recognize future workload
requirements and can prepare for high workload periods
during times of low workload. Reviewing the appropriate
chart and setting radio frequencies well in advance of when
they are needed helps reduce workload as the flight nears the
airport. In addition, a pilot should listen to ATIS, Automated
Surface Observing System (ASOS), or Automated Weather
Observing System (AWOS), if available, and then monitor
the tower frequency or Common Traffic Advisory Frequency
(CTAF) to get a good idea of what traffic conditions to
expect. Checklists should be performed well in advance so
there is time to focus on traffic and ATC instructions. These
procedures are especially important prior to entering a highdensity traffic area, such as Class B airspace.
Recognizing a work overload situation is also an important
component of managing workload. The first effect of
high workload is that the pilot may be working harder but
accomplishing less. As workload increases, attention cannot
be devoted to several tasks at one time, and the pilot may
begin to focus on one item. When a pilot becomes task
saturated, there is no awareness of input from various sources,
so decisions may be made on incomplete information and the
possibility of error increases. [Figure 2-20]
When a work overload situation exists, a pilot needs to stop,
think, slow down, and prioritize. It is important to understand
how to decrease workload. For example, in the case of the
cabin door that opened in VFR flight, the impact on workload
should be insignificant. If the cabin door opens under
IFR different conditions, its impact on workload changes.
Therefore, placing a situation in the proper perspective,

Figure 2-19. Balancing workloads can be a difficult task.

remaining calm, and thinking rationally are key elements in
reducing stress and increasing the capacity to fly safely. This
ability depends upon experience, discipline, and training.

•

In addition to the SAFETY list, discuss with
passengers whether or not smoking is permitted, flight
route altitudes, time en route, destination, weather
during flight, expected weather at the destination,
controls and what they do, and the general capabilities
and limitations of the aircraft.

•

Use a sterile flight deck (one that is completely silent
with no pilot communication with passengers or by
passengers) from the time of departure to the first
intermediate altitude and clearance from the local
airspace.

•

Use a sterile flight deck during arrival from the first
radar vector for approach or descent for the approach.

•

Keep the passengers informed during times when the
workload is low.

•

Consider using the passenger in the right seat for
simple tasks, such as holding the chart. This relieves
the pilot of a task.

Managing Risks
The ability to manage risks begins with preparation. Here
are some things a pilot can do to manage risks:
•

Assess the flight’s risk based upon experience. Use
some form of risk assessment. For example, if the
weather is marginal and the pilot has little IMC
training, it is probably a good idea to cancel the flight.

•

Brief passengers using the SAFETY list:
S

Seat belts fastened for taxi, takeoff, landing
Shoulder harness fastened for takeoff, landing
Seat position adjusted and locked in place

A

Air vents (location and operation)
All environmental controls (discussed)
Action in case of any passenger discomfort

F

Fire extinguisher (location and operation)

E

Exit doors (how to secure; how to open)
Emergency evacuation plan
Emergency/survival kit (location and contents)

T

Traffic (scanning, spotting, notifying pilot)
Talking, (“sterile flight deck” expectations)

Y

Your questions? (Speak up!)

Automation
In the GA community, an automated aircraft is generally
comprised of an integrated advanced avionics system
consisting of a primary flight display (PFD), a multifunction
flight display (MFD) including an instrument-certified global
positioning system (GPS) with traffic and terrain graphics,
and a fully integrated autopilot. This type of aircraft is
commonly known as a technically advanced aircraft (TAA).
In a TAA aircraft, there are typically two display (computer)
screens: PFD (left display screen) and MFD.

Task load

High

Low

ff

Time

ments

Takeo

equire

ht

Pilot

s

Cruise
Appro

ach &

landin

g

Task r

Preflig

tie
i
l
i
b
a
cap

Figure 2-20. The pilot has a certain capacity of doing work and handling tasks. However, there is a point where the tasking exceeds the

pilot’s capability. When this happens, tasks are either not performed properly or some are not performed at all.

2-25

Automation is the single most important advance in aviation
technologies. Electronic flight displays (EFDs) have made
vast improvements in how information is displayed and
what information is available to the pilot. Pilots can access
electronic databases that contain all of the information
traditionally contained in multiple handbooks, reducing
clutter in the flight deck. [Figure 2-21]
MFDs are capable of displaying moving maps that mirror
sectional charts. These detailed displays depict all airspace,
including Temporary Flight Restrictions (TFRs). MFDs are
so descriptive that many pilots fall into the trap of relying
solely on the moving maps for navigation. Pilots also draw
upon the database to familiarize themselves with departure
and destination airport information.
More pilots now rely on electronic databases for flight
planning and use automated flight planning tools rather
than planning the flight by the traditional methods of laying
out charts, drawing the course, identifying navigation
points (assuming a VFR flight), and using the POH to
figure out the weight and balance and performance charts.
Whichever method a pilot chooses to plan a flight, it is

important to remember to check and confirm calculations.
Always remember that it is up to the pilot to maintain basic
airmanship skills and use those skills often to maintain
proficiency in all tasks.
Although automation has made flying safer, automated
systems can make some errors more evident and sometimes
hide other errors or make them less evident. There are
concerns about the effect of automation on pilots. In a study
published in 1995, the British Airline Pilots Association
officially voiced its concern that “Airline pilots increasingly
lack ‘basic flying skills’ as a result of reliance on automation.”
This reliance on automation translates into a lack of basic flying
skills that may affect the pilot’s ability to cope with an in-flight
emergency, such as sudden mechanical failure. The worry that
pilots are becoming too reliant on automated systems and are
not being encouraged or trained to fly manually has grown
with the increase in the number of MFD flight decks.
As automated flight decks began entering everyday line
operations, instructors and check airmen grew concerned
about some of the unanticipated side effects. Despite the
promise of reducing human mistakes, the flight managers
reported the automation actually created much larger errors
at times. In the terminal environment, the workload in an
automated flight deck actually seemed higher than in the older
analog flight decks. At other times, the automation seemed
to lull the flight crews into complacency. Over time, concern
surfaced that the manual flying skills of the automated flight
crews deteriorated due to over-reliance on computers. The
flight crew managers said they worried that pilots would
have less “stick-and-rudder” proficiency when those skills
were needed to manually resume direct control of the aircraft.
A major study was conducted to evaluate the performance
of two groups of pilots. The control group was composed of
pilots who flew an older version of a common twin-jet airliner
equipped with analog instrumentation and the experimental
group was composed of pilots who flew the same aircraft,
but newer models equipped with an electronic flight
instrument system (EFIS) and a flight management system
(FMS). The pilots were evaluated in maintaining aircraft
parameters, such as heading, altitude, airspeed, glideslope,
and localizer deviations, as well as pilot control inputs. These
were recorded during a variety of normal, abnormal, and
emergency maneuvers during 4 hours of simulator sessions.

Figure 2-21. Electronic flight instrumentation comes in many

systems and provides a myriad of information to the pilot.

2-26

Results of the Study
When pilots who had flown EFIS for several years were
required to fly various maneuvers manually, the aircraft
parameters and flight control inputs clearly showed some
erosion of flying skills. During normal maneuvers, such as
turns to headings without a flight director, the EFIS group
exhibited somewhat greater deviations than the analog group.
Most of the time, the deviations were within the practical test
standards (PTS), but the pilots definitely did not keep on the
localizer and glideslope as smoothly as the analog group.
The differences in hand-flying skills between the two groups
became more significant during abnormal maneuvers, such as
accelerated descent profiles known as “slam-dunks.” When
given close crossing restrictions, the analog crews were more
adept at the mental math and usually maneuvered the aircraft
in a smoother manner to make the restriction. On the other
hand, the EFIS crews tended to go “heads down” and tried
to solve the crossing restriction on the FMS. [Figure 2-22]
Another situation used in the simulator experiment reflected
real world changes in approach that are common and can
be assigned on short notice. Once again, the analog crews
transitioned more easily to the parallel runway’s localizer,
whereas the EFIS crews had a much more difficult time with
the pilot going head down for a significant amount of time
trying to program the new approach into the FMS.
While a pilot’s lack of familiarity with the EFIS is often
an issue, the approach would have been made easier by
disengaging the automated system and manually flying the
approach. At the time of this study, the general guidelines
in the industry were to let the automated system do as much
of the flying as possible. That view has since changed and
it is recommended that pilots use their best judgment when
choosing which level of automation will most efficiently do
the task considering the workload and situational awareness.
Emergency maneuvers clearly broadened the difference in
manual flying skills between the two groups. In general, the
analog pilots tended to fly raw data, so when they were given
an emergency, such as an engine failure, and were instructed
to fly the maneuver without a flight director, they performed
it expertly. By contrast, SOP for EFIS operations at the time
was to use the flight director. When EFIS crews had their flight
directors disabled, their eye scan again began a more erratic
searching pattern and their manual flying subsequently suffered.
Those who reviewed the data saw that the EFIS pilots who
better managed the automation also had better flying skills.
While the data did not reveal whether those skills preceded
or followed automation, it did indicate that automation
management needed to be improved. Recommended “best

practices” and procedures have remedied some of the earlier
problems with automation.
Pilots must maintain their flight skills and ability to maneuver
aircraft manually within the standards set forth in the PTS. It
is recommended that pilots of automated aircraft occasionally
disengage the automation and manually fly the aircraft to
maintain stick-and-rudder proficiency. It is imperative that
the pilots understand that the EFD adds to the overall quality
of the flight experience, but it can also lead to catastrophe if
not utilized properly. At no time is the moving map meant to
substitute for a VFR sectional or low altitude en route chart.
Equipment Use

Autopilot Systems
In a single-pilot environment, an autopilot system can greatly
reduce workload. [Figure 2-23] As a result, the pilot is free
to focus his or her attention on other flight deck duties. This
can improve situational awareness and reduce the possibility
of a CFIT accident. While the addition of an autopilot may
certainly be considered a risk control measure, the real
challenge comes in determining the impact of an inoperative
unit. If the autopilot is known to be inoperative prior to
departure, this may factor into the evaluation of other risks.
For example, the pilot may be planning for a VHF
omnidirectional range (VOR) approach down to minimums
on a dark night into an unfamiliar airport. In such a case, the
pilot may have been relying heavily on a functioning autopilot
capable of flying a coupled approach. This would free the
pilot to monitor aircraft performance. A malfunctioning
autopilot could be the single factor that takes this from a
medium to a serious risk. At this point, an alternative needs
to be considered. On the other hand, if the autopilot were to
fail at a critical (high workload) portion of this same flight,
the pilot must be prepared to take action. Instead of simply
being an inconvenience, this could quickly turn into an
emergency if not properly handled. The best way to ensure
a pilot is prepared for such an event is to carefully study the
issue prior to departure and determine well in advance how
an autopilot failure is to be handled.

Familiarity
As previously discussed, pilot familiarity with all equipment
is critical in optimizing both safety and efficiency. If a pilot is
unfamiliar with any aircraft systems, this will add to workload
and may contribute to a loss of situational awareness. This
level of proficiency is critical and should be looked upon as
a requirement, not unlike carrying an adequate supply of fuel.
As a result, pilots should not look upon unfamiliarity with the
aircraft and its systems as a risk control measure, but instead as
a hazard with high risk potential. Discipline is key to success.

2-27

N

33

3

30

6

W
24

12

NAV

21

S

15

33

N

3

6

E

W

30

OBS

E

GS

24

12

N

3

21

E

W

6

30

S

33

15

OBS

24

12

134.000 118.000 COM1
123.800 118.000 COM2

130

4
300
4000

120

4200

110

4100

1
100
9

2

1

60

44000
000
20

90

3900

80

3800

70

21

113.00 WPT ______ DIS __._NM DTK ___° TRK 360°
110.60

S

NAV1 108.00
NAV2 108.00

15

HDG

270°

TAS 106KT
OAT 7°C

4300

1

2

3600
VOR 1

3500
3400
3300
XPDR 5537 IDNT LCL 10:12:34
3200
ALERTS
3100

Figure 2-22. Two similar flight decks equipped with the same information two different ways, analog and digital. What are they indicating?

Chances are that the analog pilot will review the top display before the bottom display. Conversely, the digitally trained pilot will review
the instrument panel on the bottom first.

2-28

The following are two simple rules for use of an EFD:

Figure 2-23. An example of an autopilot system.

Respect for Onboard Systems
Automation can assist the pilot in many ways, but a
thorough understanding of the system(s) in use is essential
to gaining the benefits it can offer. Understanding leads
to respect, which is achieved through discipline and the
mastery of the onboard systems. It is important to fly the
aircraft using minimal information from the primary flight
display (PFD). This includes turns, climbs, descents, and
being able to fly approaches.

•

Be able to fly the aircraft to the standards in the PTS.
Although this may seem insignificant, knowing how to
fly the aircraft to a standard makes a pilot’s airmanship
smoother and allows him or her more time to attend
to the system instead of managing multiple tasks.

•

Read and understand the installed electronic flight
systems manuals to include the use of the autopilot
and the other onboard electronic management tools.

Managing Aircraft Automation
Before any pilot can master aircraft automation, he or she
must first know how to fly the aircraft. Maneuvers training
remains an important component of flight training because
almost 40 percent of all GA accidents take place in the

Reinforcement of Onboard Suites
The use of an EFD may not seem intuitive, but competency
becomes better with understanding and practice. Computerbased software and incremental training help the pilot become
comfortable with the onboard suites. Then the pilot needs
to practice what was learned in order to gain experience.
Reinforcement not only yields dividends in the use of
automation, it also reduces workload significantly.

Getting Beyond Rote Workmanship
The key to working effectively with automation is getting
beyond the sequential process of executing an action. If a
pilot has to analyze what key to push next, or always uses
the same sequence of keystrokes when others are available,
he or she may be trapped in a rote process. This mechanical
process indicates a shallow understanding of the system.
Again, the desire is to become competent and know what to
do without having to think about, “what keystroke is next.”
Operating the system with competency and comprehension
benefits a pilot when situations become more diverse and
tasks increase.

Understand the Platform
Contrary to popular belief, flight in aircraft equipped with
different electronic management suites requires the same
attention as aircraft equipped with analog instrumentation
and a conventional suite of avionics. The pilot should review
and understand the different ways in which EFD are used in
a particular aircraft. [Figure 2-24]

Figure 2-24. Examples of different platforms. Top to bottom are the

Beechcraft Baron G58, Cirrus SR22, and Cirrus Entega.

2-29

landing phase, one realm of flight that still does not involve
programming a computer to execute. Another 15 percent
of all GA accidents occurs during takeoff and initial climb.
An advanced avionics safety issue identified by the FAA
concerns pilots who apparently develop an unwarranted
over-reliance in their avionics and the aircraft, believing
that the equipment will compensate for pilot shortcomings.
Related to the over-reliance is the role of ADM, which is
probably the most significant factor in the GA accident record
of high performance aircraft used for cross-country flight.
The FAA advanced avionics aircraft safety study found that
poor decision-making seems to afflict new advanced avionics
pilots at a rate higher than that of GA as a whole. The review
of advanced avionics accidents cited in this study shows the
majority are not caused by something directly related to the
aircraft, but by the pilot’s lack of experience and a chain of
poor decisions. One consistent theme in many of the fatal
accidents is continued VFR flight into IMC.
Thus, pilot skills for normal and emergency operations hinge
not only on mechanical manipulation of the stick and rudder,
but also include the mental mastery of the EFD. Three key
flight management skills are needed to fly the advanced
avionics safely: information, automation, and risk.

Information Management
For the newly transitioning pilot, the PFD, MFD, and GPS/
VHF navigator screens seem to offer too much information
presented in colorful menus and submenus. In fact, the pilot
may be drowning in information but unable to find a specific
piece of information. It might be helpful to remember these
systems are similar to computers that store some folders on
a desktop and some within a hierarchy.
The first critical information management skill for flying with
advanced avionics is to understand the system at a conceptual
level. Remembering how the system is organized helps the
pilot manage the available information. It is important to
understanding that learning knob-and-dial procedures is not
enough. Learning more about how advanced avionics systems
work leads to better memory for procedures and allows pilots
to solve problems they have not seen before.
There are also limits to understanding. It is generally impossible
to understand all of the behaviors of a complex avionics
system. Knowing to expect surprises and to continually learn
new things is more effective than attempting to memorize
mechanical manipulation of the knobs. Simulation software
and books on the specific system used are of great value.
The second critical information management skill is stop,
look, and read. Pilots new to advanced avionics often become
2-30

fixated on the knobs and try to memorize each and every
sequence of button pushes, pulls, and turns. A far better
strategy for accessing and managing the information available
in advanced avionics computers is to stop, look, and read.
Reading before pushing, pulling, or twisting can often save
a pilot some trouble.
Once behind the display screens on an advanced avionics
aircraft, the pilot’s goal is to meter, manage, and prioritize
the information flow to accomplish specific tasks.
Certificated flight instructors (CFIs), as well as pilots
transitioning to advanced avionics, will find it helpful to
corral the information flow. This is possible through such
tactics as configuring the aspects of the PFD and MFD
screens according to personal preferences. For example,
most systems offer map orientation options that include
“north up,” “track up,” “DTK” (desired track up), and
“heading up.” Another tactic is to decide, when possible,
how much (or how little) information to display. Pilots can
also tailor the information displayed to suit the needs of a
specific flight.
Information flow can also be managed for a specific
operation. The pilot has the ability to prioritize information
for a timely display of exactly the information needed for any
given flight operation. Examples of managing information
display for a specific operation include:
•

Program map scale settings for en route versus
terminal area operation.

•

Utilize the terrain awareness page on the MFD for a
night or IMC flight in or near the mountains.

•

Use the nearest airports inset on the PFD at night or
over inhospitable terrain.

•

Program the weather datalink set to show echoes and
METAR status flags.

Enhanced Situational Awareness
An advanced avionics aircraft offers increased safety with
enhanced situational awareness. Although aircraft flight
manuals (AFM) explicitly prohibit using the moving map,
topography, terrain awareness, traffic, and weather datalink
displays as the primary data source, these tools nonetheless
give the pilot unprecedented information for enhanced
situational awareness. Without a well-planned information
management strategy, these tools also make it easy for an
unwary pilot to slide into the complacent role of passenger
in command.
Consider the pilot whose navigational information
management strategy consists solely of following the
magenta line on the moving map. He or she can easily fly
into geographic or regulatory disaster, if the straight-line GPS

course goes through high terrain or prohibited airspace, or if
the moving map display fails.

for proper operation, and promptly take appropriate action if
the system does not perform as expected.

A good strategy for maintaining situational awareness
information management should include practices that help
ensure that awareness is enhanced, not diminished, by the use
of automation. Two basic procedures are to always doublecheck the system and verbal callouts. At a minimum, ensure
the presentation makes sense. Was the correct destination fed
into the navigation system? Callouts—even for single-pilot
operations—are an excellent way to maintain situational
awareness, as well as manage information.

For example, at the most basic level, managing the autopilot
means knowing at all times which modes are engaged
and which modes are armed to engage. The pilot needs to
verify that armed functions (e.g., navigation tracking or
altitude capture) engage at the appropriate time. Automation
management is another good place to practice the callout
technique, especially after arming the system to make a
change in course or altitude.

Other ways to maintain situational awareness include:
•

Perform verification check of all programming. Before
departure, check all information programmed while
on the ground.

•

Check the flight routing. Before departure, ensure all
routing matches the planned flight route. Enter the
planned route and legs, to include headings and leg
length, on a paper log. Use this log to evaluate what
has been programmed. If the two do not match, do not
assume the computer data is correct, double check the
computer entry.

•

Verify waypoints.

•

Make use of all onboard navigation equipment. For
example, use VOR to back up GPS and vice versa.

•

Match the use of the automated system with pilot
proficiency. Stay within personal limitations.

•

Plan a realistic flight route to maintain situational
awareness. For example, although the onboard
equipment allows a direct flight from Denver,
Colorado, to Destin, Florida, the likelihood of
rerouting around Eglin Air Force Base’s airspace is
high.

•

Be ready to verify computer data entries. For example,
incorrect keystrokes could lead to loss of situational
awareness because the pilot may not recognize errors
made during a high workload period.

Automation Management
Advanced avionics offer multiple levels of automation, from
strictly manual flight to highly automated flight. No one level
of automation is appropriate for all flight situations, but in
order to avoid potentially dangerous distractions when flying
with advanced avionics, the pilot must know how to manage
the course deviation indicator (CDI), the navigation source,
and the autopilot. It is important for a pilot to know the
peculiarities of the particular automated system being used.
This ensures the pilot knows what to expect, how to monitor

In advanced avionics aircraft, proper automation management
also requires a thorough understanding of how the autopilot
interacts with the other systems. For example, with some
autopilots, changing the navigation source on the e-HSI from
GPS to LOC or VOR while the autopilot is engaged in NAV
(course tracking mode) causes the autopilot’s NAV mode to
disengage. The autopilot’s lateral control will default to ROL
(wing level) until the pilot takes action to reengage the NAV
mode to track the desired navigation source.
Risk Management
Risk management is the last of the three flight management
skills needed for mastery of the glass flight deck aircraft. The
enhanced situational awareness and automation capabilities
offered by a glass flight deck airplane vastly expand its safety
and utility, especially for personal transportation use. At the
same time, there is some risk that lighter workloads could
lead to complacency.
Humans are characteristically poor monitors of automated
systems. When asked to passively monitor an automated
system for faults, abnormalities, or other infrequent events,
humans perform poorly. The more reliable the system, the
poorer the human performance. For example, the pilot only
monitors a backup alert system, rather than the situation
that the alert system is designed to safeguard. It is a paradox
of automation that technically advanced avionics can both
increase and decrease pilot awareness.
It is important to remember that EFDs do not replace basic
flight knowledge and skills. They are a tool for improving
flight safety. Risk increases when the pilot believes the gadgets
compensate for lack of skill and knowledge. It is especially
important to recognize there are limits to what the electronic
systems in any light GA aircraft can do. Being PIC requires
sound ADM, which sometimes means saying “no” to a flight.
Risk is also increased when the pilot fails to monitor the
systems. By failing to monitor the systems and failing to
check the results of the processes, the pilot becomes detached

2-31

from the aircraft operation and slides into the complacent role
of passenger in command. Complacency led to tragedy in a
1999 aircraft accident.
In Colombia, a multi-engine aircraft crewed with two pilots
struck the face of the Andes Mountains. Examination of
their FMS revealed they entered a waypoint into the FMS
incorrectly by one degree resulting in a flight path taking
them to a point 60 NM off their intended course. The pilots
were equipped with the proper charts, their route was posted
on the charts, and they had a paper navigation log indicating
the direction of each leg. They had all the tools to manage
and monitor their flight, but instead allowed the automation
to fly and manage itself. The system did exactly what it was
programmed to do; it flew on a programmed course into a
mountain resulting in multiple deaths. The pilots simply failed
to manage the system and inherently created their own hazard.
Although this hazard was self-induced, what is notable is the
risk the pilots created through their own inattention. By failing
to evaluate each turn made at the direction of automation, the
pilots maximized risk instead of minimizing it. In this case, a
totally avoidable accident become a tragedy through simple
pilot error and complacency.
For the GA pilot transitioning to automated systems, it is
helpful to note that all human activity involving technical
devices entails some element of risk. Knowledge, experience,
and mission requirements tilt the odds in favor of safe and
successful flights. The advanced avionics aircraft offers
many new capabilities and simplifies the basic flying tasks,
but only if the pilot is properly trained and all the equipment
is working as advertised.

Chapter Summary
This chapter focused on helping the pilot improve his or
her ADM skills with the goal of mitigating the risk factors
associated with flight in both classic and automated aircraft.
In the end, the discussion is not so much about aircraft, but
about the people who fly them.

2-32

