SAFO
Safety Alert for Operators
U.S. Department
of Transportation
Federal Aviation
Administration

SAFO 09013
DATE: 6/23/09
Flight Standards Service
Washington, DC

http://www.faa.gov/other_visit/aviation_industry/airline_operators/airline_safety/safo
A SAFO contains important safety information and may include recommended action. SAFO content should be especially valuable
to air carriers in meeting their statutory duty to provide service with the highest possible degree of safety in the public interest.
Besides the specific action recommended in a SAFO, an alternative action may be as effective in addressing the safety issue named
in the SAFO.

Subject: Fighting Fires Caused By Lithium Type Batteries in Portable Electronic Devices
Purpose: To recommend procedures for fighting fires caused by lithium type batteries in portable electronic devices
(PED).
Background: The two types of batteries commonly used to power consumer PEDs brought on aircraft are lithium
batteries (disposable) and lithium-ion batteries (rechargeable). Both these types are capable of ignition and subsequent
explosion due to overheating. Overheating results in thermal runaway, which can cause the release of either molten
burning lithium or a flammable electrolyte. Once one cell in a battery pack goes into thermal runaway, it produces
enough heat to cause adjacent cells to go into thermal runaway. The resulting fire can flare repeatedly as each cell
ruptures and releases its contents.
Discussion: Based on testing by the Fire Safety Branch of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) William J.
Hughes Technical Center, the following procedures are recommended for fighting a fire of a lithium-type-battery
powered PED. The procedures consist of two phases: (1) extinguishing the fire, and (2) cooling the remaining cells to
stop thermal runaway.
(1) Utilize a Halon, Halon replacement or water extinguisher to extinguish the fire and prevent its spread to
additional flammable materials.
(2) After extinguishing the fire, douse the device with water or other non-alcoholic liquids to cool the device and
prevent additional battery cells from reaching thermal runaway.
WARNING: Do not attempt to pick up and move a smoking or burning device! Bodily injury may result.
WARNING: Do not cover the device or use ice to cool the device. Ice or other materials insulate the device,
increasing the likelihood that additional battery cells will reach thermal runaway.
Reference Materials: The following are additional information related to lithium-type battery fires:
Additional information on lithium-type battery fires may be found by clicking on this link: SAFO 09013SUP.pdf.
The FAA has developed a training video to demonstrate effective techniques for fighting lithium-type battery fires. See
the Video on Laptop Battery Fires at http://www.fire.tc.faa.gov/2007Conference/proceedings.asp Click on the
“Training Videos” link on the lower right of the page.
Recommended Action: Directors of safety, directors of operations, training managers, and crewmembers should
collaborate to include these procedures in the operator’s manuals, operations, and training.

Approved by: AFS-200

OPR: AFS-220

