Chapter 14

Airport
Operations
Introduction
Each time a pilot operates an aircraft, the flight normally
begins and ends at an airport. An airport may be a small sod
field or a large complex utilized by air carriers. This chapter
examines airport operations, identifies features of an airport
complex, and provides information on operating on or in the
vicinity of an airport.

Airport Categories
The definition for airports refers to any area of land or water
used or intended for landing or takeoff of aircraft. This
includes, within the five categories of airports listed below,
special types of facilities including seaplane bases, heliports,
and facilities to accommodate tilt rotor aircraft. An airport
includes an area used or intended for airport buildings,
facilities, as well as rights of way together with the buildings
and facilities.

14-1

The law defines airports by categories of airport activities,
including commercial service, primary, cargo service,
reliever, and general aviation airports, as shown below:
•

Commercial Service Airports—publicly owned
airports that have at least 2,500 passenger boardings
each calendar year and receive scheduled passenger
service. Passenger boardings refer to revenue passenger
boardings on an aircraft in service in air commerce
whether or not in scheduled service. The definition
also includes passengers who continue on an aircraft
in international flight that stops at an airport in any of
the 50 States for a non-traffic purpose, such as refueling
or aircraft maintenance rather than passenger activity.
Passenger boardings at airports that receive scheduled
passenger service are also referred to as Enplanements.

•

Cargo Service Airports—airports that, in addition to any
other air transportation services that may be available,
are served by aircraft providing air transportation of
only cargo with a total annual landed weight of more
than 100 million pounds. “Landed weight” means the
weight of aircraft transporting only cargo in intrastate,
interstate, and foreign air transportation. An airport
may be both a commercial service and a cargo service
airport.

•

Reliever Airports—airports designated by the FAA
to relieve congestion at Commercial Service Airports
and to provide improved general aviation access to the
overall community. These may be publicly or privatelyowned.

•

General Aviation Airports — the remaining airports
are commonly described as General Aviation Airports.
This airport type is the largest single group of airports
in the U.S. system. The category also includes privately
owned, public use airports that enplane 2500 or more
passengers annually and receive scheduled airline
service.

Types of Airports
There are two types of airports—towered and nontowered.
These types can be further subdivided to:
•

Civil Airports—airports that are open to the general
public.

•

Military/Federal Government airports—airports
operated by the military, National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (NASA), or other agencies of
the Federal Government.

•

14-2

Private Airports—airports designated for private or
restricted use only, not open to the general public.

Towered Airport
A towered airport has an operating control tower. Air traffic
control (ATC) is responsible for providing the safe, orderly,
and expeditious flow of air traffic at airports where the
type of operations and/or volume of traffic requires such a
service. Pilots operating from a towered airport are required
to maintain two-way radio communication with ATC and to
acknowledge and comply with their instructions. Pilots must
advise ATC if they cannot comply with the instructions issued
and request amended instructions. A pilot may deviate from
an air traffic instruction in an emergency, but must advise
ATC of the deviation as soon as possible.

Nontowered Airport
A nontowered airport does not have an operating control
tower. Two-way radio communications are not required,
although it is a good operating practice for pilots to transmit
their intentions on the specified frequency for the benefit
of other traffic in the area. The key to communicating at an
airport without an operating control tower is selection of the
correct common frequency. The acronym CTAF, which stands
for Common Traffic Advisory Frequency, is synonymous
with this program. A CTAF is a frequency designated for
the purpose of carrying out airport advisory practices while
operating to or from an airport without an operating control
tower. The CTAF may be a Universal Integrated Community
(UNICOM), MULTICOM, Flight Service Station (FSS), or
tower frequency and is identified in appropriate aeronautical
publications. UNICOM is a nongovernment air/ground radio
communication station that may provide airport information
at public use airports where there is no tower or FSS. On pilot
request, UNICOM stations may provide pilots with weather
information, wind direction, the recommended runway, or
other necessary information. If the UNICOM frequency
is designated as the CTAF, it is identified in appropriate
aeronautical publications. Figure 14-1 lists recommended
communication procedures. More information regarding
radio communications is provided later in this chapter.
Nontowered airport traffic patterns are always entered at
pattern altitude. How you enter the pattern depends upon the
direction of arrival. The preferred method for entering from
the downwind side of the pattern is to approach the pattern
on a course 45 degrees to the downwind leg and join the
pattern at midfield.
There are several ways to enter the pattern if you’re coming
from the upwind leg side of the airport. One method of entry
from the opposite side of the pattern is to announce your
intentions and cross over midfield at least 500 feet above

Communication/Broadcast Procedures
Facility at Airport

Frequency Use

UNICOM
(no tower or FSS)

Practice Instrument
Approach

Outbound

Inbound

Communicate with UNICOM
station on published CTAF
frequency (122.7, 122.8, 122.725,
122.975, or 123.0). If unable to
contact UNICOM station, use selfannounce procedures on CTAF.

Before taxiing and
before taxiing on the
runway for departure.

10 miles out.
Entering downwind,
base, and final.
Leaving the runway.

No tower, FSS,
or UNICOM

Self-announce on MULTICOM
frequency 122.9.

Before taxiing and
before taxiing on the
runway for departure.

10 miles out.
Entering downwind,
base, and final.
Leaving the runway.

Departing final
approach fix (name)
or on final approach
segment inbound.

No tower in
operation, FSS open

Communicate with FSS on CTAF
frequency.

Before taxiing and
before taxiing on the
runway for departure.

10 miles out.
Entering downwind,
base, and final.
Leaving the runway.

Approach
completed/terminated.

FSS closed
(no tower)

Self-announce on CTAF.

Before taxiing and
before taxiing on the
runway for departure.

10 miles out.
Entering downwind,
base, and final.
Leaving the runway.

Tower or FSS
not in operation

Self-announce on CTAF.

Before taxiing and
before taxiing on the
runway for departure.

10 miles out.
Entering downwind,
base, and final.
Leaving the runway.

Figure 14-1. Recommended communication procedures.

pattern altitude (normally 1,500 feet AGL.) However, if large or
turbine aircraft operate at your airport, it is best to remain 2,000
feet AGL so you are not in conflict with their traffic pattern.
When well clear of the pattern—approximately 2 miles–scan
carefully for traffic, descend to pattern altitude, then turn right
to enter at 45° to the downwind leg at midfield. [Figure 14-2]
An alternate method is to enter on a midfield crosswind at
pattern altitude, carefully scan for traffic, announce your
intentions, and then turn downwind. [Figure 14-3] This
technique should not be used if the pattern is busy. Always
remember to give way to aircraft on the preferred 45° entry
and to aircraft already established on downwind.
In either case, it is vital to announce your intentions, and
remember to scan outside. Before joining the downwind
leg, adjust your course or speed to blend into the traffic.
Adjust power on the downwind leg, or sooner, to fit into
the flow of traffic. Avoid flying too fast or too slow. Speeds
recommended by the airplane manufacturer should be used.
They will generally fall between 70 to 80 knots for fixed-gear
singles and 80 to 90 knots for high-performance retractable.

Sources for Airport Data
When a pilot flies into a different airport, it is important to
review the current data for that airport. This data provides the

pilot with information, such as communication frequencies,
services available, closed runways, or airport construction.
Three common sources of information are:
•

Aeronautical Charts

•

Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility
Directory)

•

Notices to Airmen (NOTAMs)

•

Automated Terminal Information Service (ATIS)

Aeronautical Charts
Aeronautical charts provide specific information on airports.
Chapter 16, “Navigation,” contains an excerpt from an
aeronautical chart and an aeronautical chart legend, which
provides guidance on interpreting the information on the chart.
Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility
Directory)
The Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility
Directory) provides the most comprehensive information on
a given airport. It contains information on airports, heliports,
and seaplane bases that are open to the public. The Chart
Supplement U.S. is published in seven books, which are
organized by regions and are revised every 56 days. The
Chart Supplement U.S. is also available digitally at www.faa.

14-3

Figure 14-2. Preferred Entry-Crossing Midfield.

Figure 14-3. Alternate Midfield Entry.

gov/air_traffic/flight_info/aeronav. Figure 14-4 contains an
excerpt from a directory. For a complete listing of information
provided in a Chart Supplement U.S. and how the information
may be decoded, refer to the “Legend Sample” located in the
front of each Chart Supplement U.S.
In addition to airport information, each Chart Supplement
U.S. contains information such as special notices, Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) and National Weather
Service (NWS) telephone numbers, preferred instrument
flight rules (IFR) routing, visual flight rules (VFR) waypoints,
a listing of very high frequency (VHF) omnidirectional range
(VOR) receiver checkpoints, aeronautical chart bulletins, land
and hold short operations (LAHSO) for selected airports,
airport diagrams for selected towered airports, en route
flight advisory service (EFAS) outlets, parachute jumping
areas, and facility telephone numbers. It is beneficial to
review a Chart Supplement U.S. to become familiar with the
information it contains.
Notices to Airmen (NOTAM)
Time-critical aeronautical information, which is of a temporary
nature or not sufficiently known in advance to permit
publication, on aeronautical charts or in other operational

14-4

Figure 14-4. Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility
Directory excerpt.

publications receives immediate dissemination by the
NOTAM system. The NOTAM information could affect your
decision to make the flight. It includes such information as
taxiway and runway closures, construction, communications,
changes in status of navigational aids, and other information
essential to planned en route, terminal, or landing operations.
Exercise good judgment and common sense by carefully
regarding the information readily available in NOTAMs.
Prior to any flight, pilots should check for any NOTAMs that
could affect their intended flight. For more information on
NOTAMs, refer back to Chapter 1, “Pilot and Aeronautical
Information” section.
Automated Terminal Information Service (ATIS)
The Automated Terminal Information Service (ATIS) is a
recording of the local weather conditions and other pertinent
non-control information broadcast on a local frequency in a
looped format. It is normally updated once per hour but is
updated more often when changing local conditions warrant.
Important information is broadcast on ATIS including
weather, runways in use, specific ATC procedures, and any
airport construction activity that could affect taxi planning.
When the ATIS is recorded, it is given a code. This code is
changed with every ATIS update. For example, ATIS Alpha
is replaced by ATIS Bravo. The next hour, ATIS Charlie is
recorded, followed by ATIS Delta and progresses down the
alphabet.
Prior to calling ATC, tune to the ATIS frequency and listen to
the recorded broadcast. The broadcast ends with a statement
containing the ATIS code. For example, “Advise on initial
contact, you have information Bravo.” Upon contacting the
tower controller, state information Bravo was received. This
allows the tower controller to verify the pilot has the current
local weather and airport information without having to
state it all to each pilot who calls. This also clears the tower
frequency from being overtaken by the constant relay of
the same information, which would result without an ATIS
broadcast. The use of ATIS broadcasts at departure and arrival
airports is not only a sound practice but a wise decision.

Airport Markings and Signs
There are markings and signs used at airports that provide
directions and assist pilots in airport operations. It is important
for you to know the meanings of the signs, markings, and lights
that are used on airports as surface navigational aids. All airport
markings are painted on the surface, whereas some signs are
vertical and some are painted on the surface. An overview of the
most common signs and markings are described on the following
pages. Additional information may be found in Chapter 2,

“Aeronautical Lighting and Other Airport Visual Aids,” of
the Aeronautical Information Manual (AIM).
Runway Markings and Signs
Runway markings vary depending on the type of operations
conducted at the airport. A basic VFR runway may only
have centerline markings and runway numbers. Refer to
Appendix C of this publication for an example of the most
common runway markings that are found at airports.
Since aircraft are affected by the wind during takeoffs and
landings, runways are laid out according to the local prevailing
winds. Runway numbers are in reference to magnetic north.
Certain airports have two or even three runways laid out in the
same direction. These are referred to as parallel runways and
are distinguished by a letter added to the runway number (e.g.,
runway 36L (left), 36C (center), and 36R (right)).

Relocated Runway Threshold
It is sometimes necessary, due to construction or runway
maintenance, to close only a portion of a runway. When
a portion of a runway is closed, the runway threshold is
relocated as necessary. It is referred to as a relocated threshold
and methods for identifying the relocated threshold vary. A
common way for the relocated threshold to be marked is
a ten foot wide white bar across the width of the runway.
[Figure 14-5A and B]
When the threshold is relocated, the closed portion of the
runway is not available for use by aircraft for takeoff or
landing, but it is available for taxi. When a threshold is
relocated, it closes not only a set portion of the approach
end of a runway, but also shortens the length of the opposite
direction runway. Yellow arrow heads are placed across the
width of the runway just prior to the threshold bar.

Displaced Threshold
A displaced threshold is a threshold located at a point on
the runway other than the designated beginning of the
runway. Displacement of a threshold reduces the length
of runway available for landings. The portion of runway
behind a displaced threshold is available for takeoffs in either
direction, or landings from the opposite direction. A ten feet
wide white threshold bar is located across the width of the
runway at the displaced threshold, and white arrows are
located along the centerline in the area between the beginning
of the runway and displaced threshold. White arrow heads
are located across the width of the runway just prior to the
threshold bar. [Figure 14-6A and B]

14-5

A

B

36

Figure 14-5. (A) Relocated runway threshold drawing. (B) Relocated threshold for Runway 36 at Joplin Regional Airport (JLN).

Runway Safety Area

Runway Safety Area Boundary Sign

The runway safety area (RSA) is a defined surface
surrounding the runway prepared, or suitable, for reducing
the risk of damage to airplanes in the event of an undershoot,
overshoot, or excursion from the runway. The dimensions
of the RSA vary and can be determined by using the
criteria contained within AC 150/5300-13, Airport Design,
Chapter 3. Figure 3-1 in AC 150/5300-13 depicts the RSA.
Additionally, it provides greater accessibility for firefighting
and rescue equipment in emergency situations.

Some taxiway stubs also have a runway safety area boundary
sign that faces the runway and is visible to you only when
exiting the runway. This sign has a yellow background with
black markings and is typically used at towered airports
where a controller commonly requests you to report clear of
a runway. This sign is intended to provide you with another
visual cue that is used as a guide to determine when you are
clear of the runway safety boundary area. The sign shown in
Figure 14-8 is what you would see when exiting the runway at
Taxiway Kilo. You are out of the runway safety area boundary
when the entire aircraft passes the sign and the accompanying
surface painted marking.

The RSA is typically graded and mowed. The lateral
boundaries are usually identified by the presence of the
runway holding position signs and markings on the adjoining
taxiway stubs. Aircraft should not enter the RSA without
making sure of adequate separation from other aircraft during
operations at uncontrolled airports. [Figure 14-7]

14-6

Runway Holding Position Sign
Noncompliance with a runway holding position sign may
result in the FAA filing a Pilot Deviation against you. A

A

B

×

×

17
Figure 14-6. (A) Displaced runway threshold drawing. (B) Displaced threshold for Runway 17 at Albuquerque International Airport (ABQ).

runway holding position sign is an airport version of a
stop sign. [Figure 14-9] It may be seen as a sign and/or its
characters painted on the airport pavement. The sign has
white characters outlined in black on a red background. It is
always collocated with the surface painted holding position
markings and is located where taxiways intersect runways.
On taxiways that intersect the threshold of the takeoff runway,
only the designation of the runway may appear on the sign.
If a taxiway intersects a runway somewhere other than at
the threshold, the sign has the designation of the intersecting
runway. The runway numbers on the sign are arranged to
correspond to the relative location of the respective runway
thresholds. Figure 14-10 shows “18-36” to indicate the
threshold for Runway 18 is to the left and the threshold for

Figure 14-8. Runway safety area boundary sign and marking located

on Taxiway Kilo.

C 9

9
A 9

Figure 14-7. Runway Safety Area.

27

Typical Runway Safety Area

B 27

Figure 14-9. Runway holding position sign at takeoff end of Runway

14 with collocated Taxiway Alpha location sign.

14-7

Runway Holding Position Marking
Noncompliance with a runway holding position marking
may result in the FAA filing a Pilot Deviation against you.
Runway holding position markings consist of four yellow
lines, two solid and two dashed, that are painted on the surface
and extend across the width of the taxiway to indicate where
the aircraft should stop when approaching a runway. These
markings are painted across the entire taxiway pavement, are
in alignment, and are collocated with the holding position
sign as described above.
Figure 14-10. Runway holding position sign at a location other

than the takeoff end of Runway 18-36 with collocated Taxiway
Alpha location sign.

Runway 36 is to the right. The sign also indicates that you
are located on Taxiway Alpha.
If the runway holding position sign is located on a taxiway
at the intersection of two runways, the designations for
both runways are shown on the sign along with arrows
showing the approximate alignment of each runway.
[Figure 14-11A and B] In addition to showing the
approximate runway alignment, the arrows indicate the
direction(s) to the threshold of the runway whose designation
is immediately next to each corresponding arrow.
This type of taxiway and runway/runway intersection
geometry can be very confusing and create navigational
challenges. Extreme caution must be exercised when taxiing
onto or crossing this type of intersection. Figure 14-11A and
B shows a depiction of a taxiway, runway/runway intersection
and is also designated as a “hot spot” on the airport diagram.
In the example, Taxiway Bravo intersects with two runways,
31-13 and 35-17, which cross each other.
Surface painted runway holding position signs may also be
used to aid you in determining the holding position. These
markings consist of white characters on a red background
and are painted on the left side of the taxiway centerline.
Figure 14-12 shows a surface painted runway holding
position sign that is the holding point for Runway 32R-14L.
You should never allow any part of your aircraft to cross the
runway holding position sign (either a vertical or surface
painted sign) without a clearance from ATC. Doing so poses
a hazard to yourself and others.
When the tower is closed or you are operating at a nontowered
airport, you may taxi past a runway holding position sign only
when the runway is clear of aircraft, and there are no aircraft on
final approach. You may then proceed with extreme caution.

14-8

As you approach the runway, two solid yellow lines and two
dashed lines will be visible. Prior to reaching the solid lines, it
is imperative to stop and ensure that no portion of the aircraft
intersects the first solid yellow line. Do not cross the double
solid lines until a clearance from ATC has been received.
[Figure 14-13] When the tower is closed or when operating at
a nontowered airport, you may taxi onto or across the runway
only when the runway is clear and there are no aircraft on final
approach. You should use extreme caution when crossing or
taxiing onto the runway and always look both ways.
When exiting the runway, the same markings will be seen
except the aircraft will be approaching the double dashed
lines. [Figure 14-14] In order to be clear of the runway, the
entire aircraft must cross both the dashed and solid lines.
An ATC clearance is not needed to cross this marking when
exiting the runway.

Runway Distance Remaining Signs
Runway distance remaining signs have a black background
with a white number and may be installed along one or both
sides of the runway. [Figure 14-15] The number on the
signs indicates the distance, in thousands of feet, of landing
runway remaining. The last sign, which has the numeral “1,”
is located at least 950 feet from the runway end.

Runway Designation Marking
Runway numbers and letters are determined from the
approach direction. The runway number is the whole number
nearest one-tenth the magnetic azimuth of the centerline of the
runway, measured clockwise from the magnetic north. In the
case where there are parallel runways, the letters differentiate
between left (L), right (R), or center (C). [Figure 14-16] For
example, if there are two parallel runways, they would show
the designation number and then either L or R beneath it.
For three parallel runways, the designation number would
be presented with L, C, or R beneath it.

n
35-17

rn

31-13

35-17
31-13

No

tt

o

be

us

ed

fo

NC-3, 08 MAR 2012 to 05 APR 2012

NC-3, 08 MAR 2012 to 05 APR 2012

3

B

5

Runway 31

B

av
ig

Runway 13

at
io

A

Figure 14-11. (A) Taxiway Bravo location sign collocated with runway/runway intersection holding signs at Sioux Gateway Airport

(SUX) (B) Airport diagram of Sioux Gateway Airport (SUX), Sioux City, Iowa. The area outlined in red is a designated “hot spot” (HS1).

14-9

Figure 14-12. Surface painted runway holding position signs for

Runway 32R-14L along with the enhanced taxiway centerline marking.
Figure 14-15. Runway distance remaining sign indicating that there

is 2,000 feet of runway remaining.

compliance. As pilot in command (PIC), you have the final
authority to accept or decline any LAHSO clearance.
If issued a land and hold short clearance, you must be aware
of the reduced runway distances and whether or not you can
comply before accepting the clearance. You do not have
to accept a LAHSO clearance. Pilots should only receive a
LAHSO clearance when there is a minimum ceiling of 1,000
feet and 3 statute miles of visibility.

Figure 14-13. Surface painted holding position marking along with

enhanced taxiway centerline.

Runway holding position signs and markings are installed
on those runways used for LAHSO. The signs and markings
are placed at the LAHSO point to aid you in determining
where to stop and hold the aircraft and are located prior to
the runway/runway intersection. [Figure 14-17]
The holding position sign has a white inscription with black
border around the numbers on a red background and is installed
adjacent to the holding position markings. If you accept a land
and hold short clearance, you must comply so that no portion
of the aircraft extends beyond these hold markings.

Figure 14-14. Runway holding position markings as seen when

If receiving “cleared to land” instructions from ATC, you
are authorized to use the entire landing length of the runway
and should disregard any LAHSO holding position markings
located on the runway. If you receive and accept LAHSO
instructions, you must stop short of the intersecting runway
prior to the LAHSO signs and markings.

Land and Hold Short Operations (LAHSO)

Below is a list of items which, if thoroughly understood
and complied with, will ensure that LAHSO operations are
conducted properly.

exiting the runway. When exiting the runway, no ATC clearance
is required to cross.

When simultaneous operations (takeoffs and landings) are
being conducted on intersecting runways, Land and Hold
Short Operations (LAHSO) may also be in effect. LAHSO
is an ATC procedure that may require your participation and
14-10

•

Know landing distance available.

•

Be advised by ATC as to why LAHSO are being
conducted.

35
L

35
C

Figure 14-16. Two of three parallel runways.

•

Advise ATC if you cannot comply with LAHSO.

•

Know what signs and markings are at the LAHSO point.

•

LAHSO are not authorized for student pilots who are
performing a solo flight.

•

At many airports air carrier aircraft are not authorized
to participate in LAHSO if the other aircraft is a
general aviation aircraft.

•

Generally, LAHSO are not authorized at night.

•

LAHSO are not authorized on wet runways.

If you accept the following clearance from ATC: “Cleared to
land Runway 36 hold short of Runway 23,” you must either exit
Runway 36 or stop at the holding position prior to Runway 23.
Taxiway Markings and Signs
Taxiway direction signs have a yellow background and
black characters, which identifies the designation or
intersecting taxiways. Arrows indicate the direction of turn
that would place the aircraft on the designated taxiway.
[Figure 14-18] Direction signs are normally located on
the left side of the taxiway and prior to the intersection.
These signs and markings (with a yellow background and
black characters) indicate the direction toward a different
taxiway, leading off a runway, or out of an intersection.
Figure 14-18 shows Taxiway Delta and how Taxiway Bravo
intersects ahead at 90° both left and right.
Taxiway direction signs can also be displayed as surface
painted markings. Figure 14-19 shows Taxiway Bravo as
proceeding straight ahead while Taxiway Alpha turns to the
right at approximately 45°.

Figure 14-17. Runway holding position sign and marking for LAHSO.

14-11

Figure 14-18. Taxiway Bravo direction sign with a collocated

Taxiway Delta location sign. When the arrow on the direction
sign indicates a turn, the sign is located prior to the intersection.

Figure 14-20A and B shows an example of a direction sign at
a complex taxiway intersection. Figure 14-20A and B shows
Taxiway Bravo intersects with Taxiway Sierra at 90°, but at
45° with Taxiway Foxtrot. This type of array can be displayed
with or without the taxiway location sign, which in this case
would be Taxiway Bravo.

Enhanced Taxiway Centerline Markings
At most towered airports, the enhanced taxiway centerline
marking is used to warn you of an upcoming runway. It consists
of yellow dashed lines on either side of the normal solid taxiway
centerline and the dashes extend up to 150 feet prior to a
runway holding position marking. [Figure 14-21A and B] They
are used to aid you in maintaining awareness during surface
movement to reduce runway incursions.

Destination Signs
Destination signs have black characters on a yellow
background indicating a destination at the airport. These

signs always have an arrow showing the direction of the taxi
route to that destination. [Figure 14-22] When the arrow on
the destination sign indicates a turn, the sign is located prior
to the intersection. Destinations commonly shown on these
types of signs include runways, aprons, terminals, military
areas, civil aviation areas, cargo areas, international areas,
and fixed-base operators. When the inscription for two or
more destinations having a common taxi route are placed
on a sign, the destinations are separated by a “dot” (•) and
one arrow would be used as shown in Figure 14-22. When
the inscription on a sign contains two or more destinations
having different taxi routes, each destination is accompanied
by an arrow and separated from the other destination(s) on
the sign with a vertical black message divider as shown in
Figure 14-23. The example shown in Figure 14-23 shows
two signs. The sign in the foreground explains that Runway
20 threshold is to the left, and Runways 32, 2, and 14 are to
the right. The sign in the background indicates that you are
located on Taxiway Bravo and Taxiway November will take
you to those runways.

Holding Position Signs and Markings for an
Instrument Landing System (ILS) Critical Area
The instrument landing system (ILS) broadcasts signals to
arriving instrument aircraft to guide them to the runway. Each
of these ILSs have critical areas that must be kept clear of all
obstacles in order to ensure quality of the broadcast signal. At
many airports, taxiways extend into the ILS critical area. Most
of the time, this is of no concern; however, during times of
poor weather, an aircraft on approach may depend on a good
signal quality. When necessary, ATC will protect the ILS
critical area for arrival instrument traffic by instructing taxiing
aircraft to “hold short” of Runway (XX) ILS critical area.
The ILS critical area hold sign has white characters, outlined
in black, on a red background and is installed adjacent to the
ILS holding position markings. [Figure 14-24] The holding
position markings for the ILS critical area appear on the
pavement as a horizontal yellow ladder extending across the
width of the taxiway.
When instructed to “hold short of Runway (XX) ILS critical
area,” you must ensure no portion of the aircraft extends
beyond these markings. [Figure 14-25] If ATC does not
instruct you to hold at this point, then you may bypass the ILS
critical area hold position markings and continue with your
taxi. Figure 14-24 shows that the ILS hold sign is located
on Taxiway Golf and the ILS ladder hold position marking
is adjacent to the hold sign.

Figure 14-19. Surface painted taxiway direction signs.

14-12

A

F

S

S
A

S

F

B

S

F

F
B

Figure 14-20. Orientation of signs is from left to right in a clockwise manner.
Left turn
signs
are on the
left and
right turn
right.
Enhanced
taxiway
centerline
marking
extends
150 on
feetthe
prior
to a runway holding position marking. Prepare to STOP.
In this view, the pilot is on Taxiway Bravo.

B

A

B

Enhanced taxiway centerline marking extends 150 feet prior
to a runway holding position marking. Prepare to STOP.

Prepare to STOP unless you have been cleared onto
or across the runway by ATC.

B
Figure 14-21. (A) Enhanced taxiway centerline marking. (B) Enhanced taxiway centerline marking and runway holding position marking.

14-13

19
The yellow surface
painted “ladder”
marking and red ILS
sign are located
on taxiways where
the taxiways intersect
the ILS critical area.

I LS

Crit

Figure 14-22. Destination sign to the fixed-base operator (FBO).

ical
Are
a bo
und

ary

ILS

Hold only
when
specifically
instructed by ATC

Figure 14-25. Holding position sign and marking for instrument

landing system (ILS) critical area boundary.

Holding Position Markings for Taxiway/Taxiway
Intersections

Figure 14-23. Runway destination sign with different taxi routes.

Holding position markings for taxiway/taxiway intersections
consist of a single dashed yellow line extending across the
width of the taxiway. [Figure 14-26] They are painted on
taxiways where ATC normally holds aircraft short of a
taxiway intersection. When instructed by ATC “hold short
of Taxiway X,” you should stop so that no part of your
aircraft extends beyond the holding position marking. When
the marking is not present, you should stop your aircraft at
a point that provides adequate clearance from an aircraft on
the intersecting taxiway.

Marking and Lighting of Permanently Closed
Runways and Taxiways
For runways and taxiways that are permanently closed, the
lighting circuits are disconnected. The runway threshold,
runway designation, and touchdown markings are obliterated
and yellow “Xs” are placed at each end of the runway and
at 1,000-foot intervals.
Figure 14-24. Instrument landing system (ILS) holding position sign

and marking on Taxiway Golf.

14-14

G

B

A

B

G

B

B

G

G

G

Figure 14-26. Holding position marking on a taxiway.

B

Temporarily Closed Runways and Taxiways
For temporarily closed runways and taxiways, a visual
indication is often provided with yellow “Xs” or raised
lighted yellow “Xs” placed at each end of the runway.
Depending on the reason for the closure, duration of closure,
airfield configuration, and the existence and the hours of
operation of an ATC tower, a visual indication may not be
present. As discussed previously in the chapter, you must
always check NOTAMs and ATIS for runway and taxiway
closure information.
Figure 14-27A shows an example of a yellow “X” laid flat
with an adequate number of heavy sand bags to keep the
wind from getting under and displacing the vinyl material.

C

A very effective and preferable visual aid to depict temporary
closure is the lighted “X” placed on or near the runway
designation numbers. [Figure 14-27B and C] This device is
much more discernible to approaching aircraft than the other
materials described above.
Other Markings
Some other markings found on the airport include vehicle
roadway markings, VOR receiver checkpoint markings, and
non-movement area boundary markings.
Airport Signs
There are six types of signs that may be found at airports. The
more complex the layout of an airport, the more important
the signs become to pilots. Appendix C of this publication
shows examples of some signs that are found at most airports,
their purpose, and appropriate pilot action. The six types of
signs are:
•

Mandatory instruction signs—red background with
white inscription. These signs denote an entrance to a
runway, critical area, or prohibited area.

Figure 14-27. (A) Yellow “X” placed on surface of temporarily closed
runways. (B) Lighted “X” placed on temporarily closed runways.
(C) Lighted “X” at night showing a temporarily closed runway.

•

Location signs—black with yellow inscription and a
yellow border, no arrows. They are used to identify a
taxiway or runway location, to identify the boundary
of the runway, or identify an instrument landing
system (ILS) critical area.

14-15

•

Direction signs—yellow background with black
inscription. The inscription identifies the designation
of the intersecting taxiway(s) leading out of an
intersection.

•

Destination signs—yellow background with black
inscription and arrows. These signs provide information
on locating areas, such as runways, terminals, cargo
areas, and civil aviation areas.

•

Information signs—yellow background with black
inscription. These signs are used to provide the pilot
with information on areas that cannot be seen from the
control tower, applicable radio frequencies, and noise
abatement procedures. The airport operator determines
the need, size, and location of these signs.

•

Runway distance remaining signs—black background
with white numbers. The numbers indicate the
distance of the remaining runway in thousands of feet.

Airport Lighting
The majority of airports have some type of lighting for night
operations. The variety and type of lighting systems depends
on the volume and complexity of operations at a given airport.
Airport lighting is standardized so that airports use the same
light colors for runways and taxiways.
Airport Beacon
Airport beacons help a pilot identify an airport at night.
The beacons are normally operated from dusk until dawn.
Sometimes they are turned on if the ceiling is less than 1,000
feet and/or the ground visibility is less than 3 statute miles (VFR
minimums). However, there is no requirement for this, so a
pilot has the responsibility of determining if the weather meets
VFR requirements. The beacon has a vertical light distribution
to make it most effective from 1–10° above the horizon,
although it can be seen well above or below this spread. The
beacon may be an omnidirectional capacitor-discharge device,
or it may rotate at a constant speed, that produces the visual
effect of flashes at regular intervals. The combination of light
colors from an airport beacon indicates the type of airport.
[Figure 14-28] Some of the most common beacons are:
•

Flashing white and green for civilian land airports

•

Flashing white and yellow for a water airport

•

Flashing white, yellow, and green for a heliport

•

Two quick white flashes alternating with a green flash
identifying a military airport

Approach Light Systems
Approach light systems are primarily intended to provide a
means to transition from instrument flight to visual flight for
landing. The system configuration depends on whether the
14-16

White

Green

White

Yellow

Figure 14-28. Airport rotating beacons.

runway is a precision or nonprecision instrument runway.
Some systems include sequenced flashing lights that appear
to the pilot as a ball of light traveling toward the runway at
high speed. Approach lights can also aid pilots operating
under VFR at night.
Visual Glideslope Indicators
Visual glideslope indicators provide the pilot with glidepath
information that can be used for day or night approaches. By
maintaining the proper glidepath as provided by the system,
a pilot should have adequate obstacle clearance and should
touch down within a specified portion of the runway.

Visual Approach Slope Indicator (VASI)
VASI installations are the most common visual glidepath
systems in use. The VASI provides obstruction clearance
within 10° of the extended runway centerline and up to four
nautical miles (NM) from the runway threshold.
The VASI consists of light units arranged in bars. There are
2-bar and 3-bar VASIs. The 2-bar VASI has near and far light
bars and the 3-bar VASI has near, middle, and far light bars.
Two-bar VASI installations provide one visual glidepath
that is normally set at 3°. The 3-bar system provides two
glidepaths, the lower glidepath normally set at 3° and the
upper glidepath ¼ degree above the lower glidepath.
The basic principle of the VASI is that of color differentiation
between red and white. Each light unit projects a beam of
light, a white segment in the upper part of the beam and a
red segment in the lower part of the beam. The lights are
arranged so the pilot sees the combination of lights shown in
Figure 14-29 to indicate below, on, or above the glidepath.

Other Glidepath Systems
A precision approach path indicator (PAPI) uses lights similar
to the VASI system, except they are installed in a single row,
normally on the left side of the runway. [Figure 14-30]

Below Glidepath

On Glidepath

Above Glidepath

Far Bar

Far Bar

Far Bar

Near Bar

Near Bar

Near Bar

light. The “slightly below glidepath” indication is a steady red
light. If the aircraft descends further below the glidepath, the
red light starts to pulsate. The “above glidepath” indication
is a pulsating white light. The pulsating rate increases as the
aircraft gets further above or below the desired glideslope.
The useful range of the system is about four miles during the
day and up to ten miles at night. [Figure 14-32]
Runway Lighting
There are various lights that identify parts of the runway
complex. These assist a pilot in safely making a takeoff or
landing during night operations.

Runway End Identifier Lights (REIL)

Figure 14-29. Two-bar VASI system.

A tri-color system consists of a single-light unit projecting
a three-color visual approach path. Below the glidepath is
indicated by red, on the glidepath is indicated by green, and
above the glidepath is indicated by amber. When descending
below the glidepath, there is a small area of dark amber. Pilots
should not mistake this area for an “above the glidepath”
indication. [Figure 14-31]
Pulsating VASIs normally consist of a single-light unit
projecting a two-color visual approach path into the final
approach area of the runway upon which the indicator is
installed. The “on glidepath” indication is a steady white

High
more than 3.5°

Slightly High
3.2°

Runway end identifier lights (REIL) are installed at many
airfields to provide rapid and positive identification of the
approach end of a particular runway. The system consists
of a pair of synchronized flashing lights located laterally
on each side of the runway threshold. REILs may be either
omnidirectional or unidirectional facing the approach area.

Runway Edge Lights
Runway edge lights are used to outline the edges of
runways at night or during low visibility conditions.
[Figure 14-33] These lights are classified according to the
intensity they are capable of producing: high intensity runway
lights (HIRL), medium intensity runway lights (MIRL), and

On Glidepath
3°

Slightly Low
2.8°

Low
less than 2.5°

Figure 14-30. Precision approach path indicator for a typical 3° glide slope.

depath
Above gli
On glidepath
Below glidepath

r
be
m
A n
ee
Gr
d
Re

Amber

Figure 14-31. Tri-color visual approach slope indicator.

14-17

ting
lu saite
P wh
Above

dy
tS eate
i
wh
red
nti g
a
uls

th

glidepa

On glidepath
Slightly below glidepath
Below glidepath

Steady
red

P

Threshold
Figure 14-32. Pulsating visual approach slope indicator.

low intensity runway lights (LIRL). The HIRL and MIRL
have variable intensity settings. These lights are white, except
on instrument runways where amber lights are used on the
last 2,000 feet or half the length of the runway, whichever
is less. The lights marking the end of the runway are red.

In-Runway Lighting
Runway centerline lighting system (RCLS)—installed on some
precision approach runways to facilitate landing under adverse
visibility conditions. They are located along the runway
centerline and are spaced at 50-foot intervals. When viewed
from the landing threshold, the runway centerline lights are
white until the last 3,000 feet of the runway. The white lights
begin to alternate with red for the next 2,000 feet. For the
remaining 1,000 feet of the runway, all centerline lights are red.
Touchdown zone lights (TDZL)—installed on some precision
approach runways to indicate the touchdown zone when
landing under adverse visibility conditions. They consist of
two rows of transverse light bars disposed symmetrically
about the runway centerline. The system consists of steadyburning white lights that start 100 feet beyond the landing
threshold and extend to 3,000 feet beyond the landing
threshold or to the midpoint of the runway, whichever is less.

Figure 14-33. Runway lights.

14-18

Taxiway centerline lead-off lights—provide visual guidance
to persons exiting the runway. They are color-coded to warn
pilots and vehicle drivers that they are within the runway
environment or ILS critical area, whichever is more restrictive.
Alternate green and yellow lights are installed, beginning
with green, from the runway centerline to one centerline light
position beyond the runway holding position or ILS critical
area holding position.
Taxiway centerline lead-on lights—provide visual guidance
to persons entering the runway. These “lead-on” lights are
also color-coded with the same color pattern as lead-off
lights to warn pilots and vehicle drivers that they are within
the runway environment or ILS critical area, whichever is
more conservative. The fixtures used for lead-on lights are
bidirectional (i.e., one side emits light for the lead-on function
while the other side emits light for the lead-off function). Any
fixture that emits yellow light for the lead-off function also
emits yellow light for the lead-on function.
Land and hold short lights—used to indicate the hold short
point on certain runways which are approved for LAHSO.
Land and hold short lights consist of a row of pulsing white
lights installed across the runway at the hold short point.
Where installed, the lights are on anytime LAHSO is in effect.
These lights are off when LAHSO is not in effect.
Control of Airport Lighting
Airport lighting is controlled by ATC at towered airports. At
nontowered airports, the lights may be on a timer, or where an
FSS is located at an airport, the FSS personnel may control the
lighting. A pilot may request various light systems be turned
on or off and also request a specified intensity, if available,
from ATC or FSS personnel. At selected nontowered airports,
the pilot may control the lighting by using the radio. This
is done by selecting a specified frequency and clicking the
radio microphone. [Figure 14-34] For information on pilot
controlled lighting at various airports, refer to the Chart
Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility Directory).

Key Mike

Function

7 times within 5 seconds

Highest intensity available

5 times within 5 seconds

Medium or lower intensity
(Lower REIL or REIL off)

3 times within 5 seconds

Lowest intensity available
(Lower REIL or REIL off)

Figure 14-34. Radio controlled runway lighting.

Taxiway Lights
Similar to runway lighting, taxiways also have various lights
which help pilots identify areas of the taxiway and any
surrounding runways.

red lights on each side. A controlled stop bar is operated in
conjunction with the taxiway centerline lead-on lights which
extend from the stop bar toward the runway. Following the
ATC clearance to proceed, the stop bar is turned off and the
lead-on lights are turned on. The stop bar and lead-on lights
are automatically reset by a sensor or backup timer.
Obstruction Lights
Obstructions are marked or lighted to warn pilots of
their presence during daytime and nighttime conditions.
Obstruction lighting can be found both on and off an airport
to identify obstructions. They may be marked or lighted in
any of the following conditions.
•

Red obstruction lights—flash or emit a steady red
color during nighttime operations, and the obstructions
are painted orange and white for daytime operations.

•

High intensity white obstruction lights—flash high
intensity white lights during the daytime with the
intensity reduced for nighttime.

•

Dual lighting—a combination of flashing red beacons
and steady red lights for nighttime operation and high
intensity white lights for daytime operations.

Omnidirectional
Omnidirectional taxiway lights outline the edges of the
taxiway and are blue in color. At many airports, these
edge lights may have variable intensity settings that may
be adjusted by an ATC when deemed necessary or when
requested by the pilot. Some airports also have taxiway
centerline lights that are green in color.

Clearance Bar Lights
Clearance bar lights are installed at holding positions on
taxiways in order to increase the conspicuity of the holding
position in low visibility conditions. They may also be
installed to indicate the location of an intersecting taxiway
during periods of darkness. Clearance bars consist of three
in-pavement steady-burning yellow lights.

Runway Guard Lights
Runway guard lights are installed at taxiway/runway
intersections. They are primarily used to enhance the
conspicuity of taxiway/runway intersections during low
visibility conditions, but may be used in all weather conditions.
Runway guard lights consist of either a pair of elevated flashing
yellow lights installed on either side of the taxiway, or a row of
in-pavement yellow lights installed across the entire taxiway,
at the runway holding position marking.
Note: Some airports may have a row of three or five
in-pavement yellow lights installed at taxiway/runway
intersections. They should not be confused with clearance
bar lights described previously in this section.

Stop Bar Lights
Stop bar lights, when installed, are used to confirm the ATC
clearance to enter or cross the active runway in low visibility
conditions (below 1,200 ft Runway Visual Range (RVR)).
A stop bar consists of a row of red, unidirectional, steadyburning in-pavement lights installed across the entire taxiway
at the runway holding position, and elevated steady-burning

New Lighting Technologies
A top priority of the FAA is to continue to enhance airport
safety while maintaining airport capacity. Reducing runway
incursions is a major component of this effort. Runway
incursions develop quickly and without warning during routine
traffic situations on the airport surface, leaving little time for
corrective action. The Runway Status Lights (RWSL) System
is designed to provide a direct indication to you that it is unsafe
to enter a runway, cross a runway, or takeoff from or land on
a runway when the system is activated.
Runway status lights are red in color and indicate runway
status only; they do not indicate clearance to enter a runway
or clearance to takeoff. The RWSL system provides warning
lights on runways and taxiways, illuminating when it is unsafe
to enter, cross, or begin takeoff on a runway. Currently, there
are two types: Runway Entrance Lights (REL) and Takeoff
Hold Lights (THL). [Figures 14-35 and 14-36]
REL provide a warning to aircraft crossing or entering a
runway from intersecting taxiways that there is conflicting
traffic on the runway. THL provide a warning signal to
aircraft in position for takeoff that the runway is occupied
and it is unsafe to take off. As of 2016, the RWSL system is
operational at 14 of the nation’s busiest airports with 3 more
airports scheduled to receive the system by 2017.

14-19

out straighter in strong winds and tends to move back and
forth when the wind is gusting. Wind tees and tetrahedrons
can swing freely and align themselves with the wind direction.
Since a wind tee or tetrahedron can also be manually set to
align with the runway in use, a pilot should also look at the
wind sock for wind information, if one is available.

Traffic Patterns

Figure 14-35. Runway Entrance Lights (REL).

Figure 14-36. Takeoff Hold Lights (THL).

Wind Direction Indicators
It is important for a pilot to know the direction of the wind. At
facilities with an operating control tower, this information is
provided by ATC. Information may also be provided by FSS
personnel either located at a particular airport or remotely
available through a remote communication outlet (RCO), or
by requesting information on a CTAF at airports that have the
capacity to receive and broadcast on this frequency.
When none of these services is available, it is possible
to determine wind direction and runway in use by visual
wind indicators. A pilot should check these wind indicators
even when information is provided on the CTAF at a given
airport because there is no assurance that the information
provided is accurate.
The wind direction indicator can be a wind cone, wind sock,
tetrahedron, or wind tee. These are usually located in a central
location near the runway and may be placed in the center
of a segmented circle, which identifies the traffic pattern
direction if it is other than the standard left-hand pattern.
[Figures 14-37 and 14-38]
The wind sock is a good source of information since it not
only indicates wind direction but allows the pilot to estimate
the wind velocity and/or gust factor. The wind sock extends
14-20

At airports without an operating control tower, a segmented
circle visual indicator system, if installed, is designed to
provide traffic pattern information. [Figure 14-38] Usually
located in a position affording maximum visibility to pilots in
the air and on the ground and providing a centralized location
for other elements of the system, the segmented circle consists
of the following components: wind direction indicators,
landing direction indicators, landing strip indicators, and
traffic pattern indicators.
A tetrahedron is installed to indicate the direction of landings
and takeoffs when conditions at the airport warrant its use.
It may be located at the center of a segmented circle and
may be lighted for night operations. The small end of the
tetrahedron points in the direction of landing. Pilots are
cautioned against using a tetrahedron for any purpose other
than as an indicator of landing direction. At airports with
control towers, the tetrahedron should only be referenced
when the control tower is not in operation. Tower instructions
supersede tetrahedron indications.
Landing strip indicators are installed in pairs and are used to
show the alignment of landing strips. [Figure 14-38] Traffic
pattern indicators are arranged in pairs in conjunction with
landing strip indicators and used to indicate the direction of
turns when there is a variation from the normal left traffic
pattern. (If there is no segmented circle installed at the airport,
traffic pattern indicators may be installed on or near the end
of the runway.)
At most airports and military air bases, traffic pattern altitudes
for propeller-driven aircraft generally extend from 600 feet
to as high as 1,500 feet above ground level (AGL). Pilots
can obtain the traffic pattern altitude for an airport from the
Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility Directory).
Also, traffic pattern altitudes for military turbojet aircraft
sometimes extend up to 2,500 feet AGL. Therefore, pilots of
en route aircraft should be constantly on alert for other aircraft
in traffic patterns and avoid these areas whenever possible.
When operating at an airport, traffic pattern altitudes should
be maintained unless otherwise required by the applicable
distance from cloud criteria according to Title 14 of the Code
of Federal Regulations (14 CFR) part 91, section 91.155.
Additional information on airport traffic pattern operations

Tetrahedron

WIND
Wind tee

Wind sock or cone

Figure 14-37. Wind direction indicators.

Traffic pattern
indicators
Landing direction
indicator

Landing runway
or landing strip
indicators

Maintain pattern altitude until abeam approach end of
the landing runway on downwind leg. [Figure 14-39]

3.

Complete turn to final at least ¼ mile from the runway.
[Figure 14-39]

4.

After takeoff or go-around, continue straight ahead
until beyond departure end of runway. [Figure 14-39]

5.

If remaining in the traffic pattern, commence turn to
crosswind leg beyond the departure end of the runway
within 300 feet of pattern altitude. [Figure 14-39]

6.

If departing the traffic pattern, continue straight out,
or exit with a 45° turn (to the left when in a left-hand
traffic pattern; to the right when in a right-hand traffic
pattern) beyond the departure end of the runway, after
reaching pattern altitude. [Figure 14-39]

Wind cone

Figure 14-38. Segmented circle.

can be found in Chapter 4, “Air Traffic Control,” of the AIM.
Pilots can find traffic pattern information and restrictions, such
as noise abatement in the Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly
Airport/Facility Directory).
Example: Key to Traffic Pattern Operations—
Single Runway
1.

2.

Enter pattern in level flight, abeam the midpoint
of the runway, at pattern altitude. (1,000' AGL is
recommended pattern altitude unless otherwise
established.) [Figure 14-39]

Example: Key to Traffic Pattern Operations—
Parallel Runways
1.

Enter pattern in level flight, abeam the midpoint
of the runway, at pattern altitude. (1,000' AGL is
recommended pattern altitude unless otherwise
established.) [Figure 14-40]

2.

Maintain pattern altitude until abeam approach end of
the landing runway on downwind leg. [Figure 14-40]

3.

Complete turn to final at least ¼ mile from the runway.
[Figure 14-40]

4.

Do not overshoot final or continue on a track that
penetrates the final approach of the parallel runway

5.

After takeoff or go-around, continue straight ahead
until beyond departure end of runway. [Figure 14-40]

14-21

LEGEND

En
try

Application of traffic
pattern indicators

Recommended standard left-hand traffic
pattern (depicted)
(standard right-hand
traffic pattern would be mirror image)

1

Downwind

2

Base

Crosswind

Segmented circle

3

Final

Departure

4

e

ur

rt

a
ep

D

5
6

6

Departure

RUNWAY

Figure 14-39. Traffic pattern operations—single runway.

6.

If remaining in the traffic pattern, commence turn to
crosswind leg beyond the departure end of the runway
within 300 feet of pattern altitude. [Figure 14-40]

7.

If departing the traffic pattern, continue straight out,
or exit with a 45° turn (to the left when in a left-hand
traffic pattern; to the right when in a right-hand traffic
pattern) beyond the departure end of the runway, after
reaching pattern altitude. [Figure 14-40]

8.

Do not continue on a track that penetrates the departure
path of the parallel runway. [Figure 14-40]

Radio Communications
Operating in and out of a towered airport, as well as in a good
portion of the airspace system, requires that an aircraft have twoway radio communication capability. For this reason, a pilot
should be knowledgeable of radio station license requirements
and radio communications equipment and procedures.
Radio License
There is no license requirement for a pilot operating in the
United States; however, a pilot who operates internationally
is required to hold a restricted radiotelephone permit issued
by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). There
is also no station license requirement for most general
aviation aircraft operating in the United States. A station
license is required, however, for an aircraft that is operating
internationally, that uses other than a VHF radio, and that
meets other criteria.

14-22

Radio Equipment
In general aviation, the most common types of radios are
VHF. A VHF radio operates on frequencies between 118.0
megahertz (MHz) and 136.975 MHz and is classified as
720 or 760 depending on the number of channels it can
accommodate. The 720 and 760 use .025 MHz (25 kilohertz
(KHz) spacing (118.025, 118.050) with the 720 having a
frequency range up to 135.975 MHz and the 760 reaching
up to 136.975 MHz. VHF radios are limited to line of sight
transmissions; therefore, aircraft at higher altitudes are able
to transmit and receive at greater distances.
In March of 1997, the International Civil Aviation Organization
(ICAO) amended its International Standards and Recommended
Practices to incorporate a channel plan specifying 8.33 kHz
channel spacings in the Aeronautical Mobile Service. The
8.33 kHz channel plan was adopted to alleviate the shortage of
VHF ATC channels experienced in western Europe and in the
United Kingdom. Seven western European countries and the
United Kingdom implemented the 8.33 kHz channel plan on
January 1, 1999. Accordingly, aircraft operating in the airspace
of these countries must have the capability of transmitting and
receiving on the 8.33 kHz spaced channels.
Using Proper Radio Procedures
Using proper radio phraseology and procedures contribute to
a pilot’s ability to operate safely and efficiently in the airspace
system. A review of the Pilot/Controller Glossary contained
in the AIM assists a pilot in the use and understanding of

LEGEND
Standard left-hand
traffic pattern (depicted)

1

Right-hand traffic
pattern (depicted)

Base

Crosswind

2

Final

Departure

No transgression zone

Final

Departure

2

4

6

No transgression zone

Segmented circle

Base

3

6

4

6

Crosswind

3

5

6
5

Downwind

1

y

tr

En

Figure 14-40. Traffic pattern operation—parallel runways.

standard terminology. The AIM also contains many examples
of radio communications.
ICAO has adopted a phonetic alphabet that should be used in
radio communications. When communicating with ATC, pilots
should use this alphabet to identify their aircraft. [Figure 14-41]
Lost Communication Procedures
It is possible that a pilot might experience a malfunction of
the radio. This might cause the transmitter, receiver, or both
to become inoperative. If a receiver becomes inoperative and a
pilot needs to land at a towered airport, it is advisable to remain
outside or above Class D airspace until the direction and flow
of traffic is determined. A pilot should then advise the tower of
the aircraft type, position, altitude, and intention to land. The
pilot should continue, enter the pattern, report a position as
appropriate, and watch for light signals from the tower. Light
signal colors and their meanings are contained in Figure 14-42.

If the transmitter becomes inoperative, a pilot should follow
the previously stated procedures and also monitor the
appropriate ATC frequency. During daylight hours, ATC
transmissions may be acknowledged by rocking the wings
and at night by blinking the landing light.
When both receiver and transmitter are inoperative, the pilot
should remain outside of Class D airspace until the flow of
traffic has been determined and then enter the pattern and
watch for light signals.
Radio malfunctions should be repaired before further
flight. If this is not possible, ATC may be contacted by
telephone requesting a VFR departure without two-way radio
communications. No radio (NORDO) procedure arrivals
are not accepted at busy airports. If authorization is given
to depart, the pilot is advised to monitor the appropriate
frequency and/or watch for light signals as appropriate.

14-23

Character

Morse Code

Telephony

Phonic Pronunciation

AA
a
BB
b
CC
c
DDd
EE
e
FF
f
GGg
hHh
II i
JJ
j
KKk
LL
L
MMm
NNn
OO
o
PPp
QQq
RR
r
SS
s
TTt
UU
u
VVv
WWw
XXx
YYy
ZZ
z
11
1
22
2
33
3
444
555
N6n
O7
o
P8p
Q9q
R0
r
Figure 14-41. Phonetic alphabet.

If radio communication is lost, it may be a prudent decision
to land at a non-towered airport with lower traffic volume, if
practical. When operating at a non-towered airport, no radio
communication is necessary. However, pilots should be extra
vigilant when not using the radio. Other traffic may not as
14-24

easily be aware of your presence when they are expecting
the standard radio calls.

Air Traffic Control (ATC) Services
Besides the services provided by an FSS as discussed in
Chapter 12, “Aviation Weather Services,” numerous other
services are provided by ATC. In many instances a pilot
is required to have contact with ATC, but even when not
required, a pilot may find their services helpful.
Primary Radar
Radar is a device that provides information on range, azimuth,
and/or elevation of objects in the path of the transmitted
pulses. It measures the time interval between transmission and
reception of radio pulses and correlates the angular orientation
of the radiated antenna beam or beams in azimuth and/or
elevation. Range is determined by measuring the time it takes
for the radio wave to go out to the object and then return to the
receiving antenna. The direction of a detected object from a
radar site is determined by the position of the rotating antenna
when the reflected portion of the radio wave is received.
Modern radar is very reliable and there are seldom outages.
This is due to reliable maintenance and improved equipment.
There are, however, some limitations that may affect ATC
services and prevent a controller from issuing advisories
concerning aircraft that are not under his or her control and
cannot be seen on radar.
The characteristics of radio waves are such that they normally
travel in a continuous straight line unless they are “bent” by
atmospheric phenomena, such as temperature inversions,
reflected or attenuated by dense objects such as heavy clouds
and precipitation, or screened by high terrain features. Radar
signals degrade over distance, cannot penetrate through solid
objects such as mountains, and the fastest radar updates every
4.7 seconds. By contrast, the satellite signals used with
Automatic Dependent Surveillance−Broadcast (ADS−B) do
not degrade over distance, provide better visibility around
mountainous terrain and allows equipped aircraft to update
their own position once a second with better accuracy.
ATC Radar Beacon System (ATCRBS)
The ATC radar beacon system (ATCRBS) is often referred to
as “secondary surveillance radar.” This system consists of three
components and helps in alleviating some of the limitations
associated with primary radar. The three components are an
interrogator, transponder, and radarscope. The advantages of
ATCRBS are the reinforcement of radar targets, rapid target
identification, and a unique display of selected codes.
Growing air traffic in the National Airspace System (NAS)
will be addressed through the use of ADS-B, which not only

Color and Type of Signal

Movement of Vehicles,
Equipment and Personnel

Aircraft on the Ground

Aircraft in Flight

Steady green

Cleared to cross,
proceed or go

Cleared for takeoff

Cleared to land

Not applicable

Cleared for taxi

Return for landing (to be followed
by steady green at the proper time)

Stop

Stop

Give way to other aircraft and
continue circling

Flashing red

Clear the taxiway/runway

Taxi clear of the runway
in use

Airport unsafe, do not land

Flashing white

Return to starting point
on airport

Return to starting point
on airport

Not applicable

Exercise extreme caution!!!!

Exercise extreme caution!!!!

Exercise extreme caution!!!!

Flashing green
Steady red

Alternating red and green
Figure 14-42. Light gun signals.

provides all the same information the ATCRBS, but will do
so more rapidly and with significantly more accuracy. By
broadcasting aircraft position information to a ground station,
ADS–B can also provide coverage in areas that do not have
radar coverage. In addition, ADS–B provides trajectory
information that includes speed and direction of motion.
Transponder
The transponder is the airborne portion of the secondary
surveillance radar system and a system with which a pilot
should be familiar. The ATCRBS cannot display the secondary

information unless an aircraft is equipped with a transponder.
A transponder is also required to operate in certain controlled
airspace as discussed in Chapter 15, “Airspace.”
A transponder code consists of four numbers from 0 to 7
(4,096 possible codes). There are some standard codes or ATC
may issue a four-digit code to an aircraft. When a controller
requests a code or function on the transponder, the word
“squawk” may be used. Figure 14-43 lists some standard
transponder phraseology. Additional information concerning
transponder operation can be found in the AIM, Chapter 4.

Radar Beacon Phraseology
SQUAWK (number)

Operate radar beacon transponder on designated code in MODE A/3.

IDENT

Engage the “IDENT” feature (military I/P) of the transponder.

SQUAWK (number) and IDENT

Operate transponder on specified code in MODE A/3 and engage the “IDENT”
(military I/P) feature.

SQUAWK Standby

Switch transponder to standby position.

SQUAWK Low/Normal

Operate transponder on low or normal sensitivity as specified. Transponder is
operated in “NORMAL” position unless ATC specifies “LOW” (“ON” is used instead of
“NORMAL” as a master control label on some types of transponders).

SQUAWK Altitude

Activate MODE C with automatic altitude reporting.

STOP Altitude SQUAWK

Turn off altitude reporting switch and continue transmitting MODE C framing pulses.
If your equipment does not have this capability, turn off MODE C.

STOP SQUAWK (mode in use)

Switch off specified mode. (Used for military aircraft when the controller is unaware of
military service requirements for the aircraft to continue operation on another MODE.)

STOP SQUAWK

Switch off transponder.

SQUAWK Mayday

Operate transponder in the emergency position (MODE A Code 7700 for civil
transponder, MODE 3 Code 7700 and emergency feature for military transponder).

SQUAWK VFR

Operate radar beacon transponder on Code 1200 in MODE A/3, or other
appropriate VFR code.

Figure 14-43. Transponder phraseology.

14-25

Automatic Dependent Surveillance–Broadcast
(ADS-B)
Automatic Dependent Surveillance−Broadcast (ADS−B) is a
surveillance technology being deployed throughout the NAS
to facilitate improvements needed to increase the capacity
and efficiency of the NAS, while maintaining safety. ADS-B
supports these improvements by providing a higher update rate
and enhanced accuracy of surveillance information over the
current radar-based surveillance system. In addition, ADS-B
enables the expansion of air traffic control (ATC) surveillance
services into areas where none existed previously. The ADS-B
ground system also provides Traffic Information ServicesBroadcast (TIS-B) and Flight Information Services-Broadcast
(FIS-B) for use on appropriately equipped aircraft, enhancing
the user’s situational awareness (SA) and improving the
overall safety of the NAS.
The ADS−B system is composed of aircraft avionics and a
ground infrastructure. Onboard avionics determine the position
of the aircraft by using the GPS and transmit its position,
along with additional information about the aircraft, to ground
stations for use by ATC and nearby ADS-B equipped aircraft.
In the United States, ADS−B equipped aircraft exchange
information on one of two frequencies: 978 or 1090 MHz.
The 1090 MHz frequency is associated with Mode A, C, and S
transponder operations. 1090 MHz transponders with integrated
ADS−B functionality extend the transponder message sets with
additional ADS−B information. This additional information
is known as an “extended squitter” message and referred to as
1090ES. ADS−B equipment operating on 978 MHz is known
as the Universal Access Transceiver (UAT).
Radar Traffic Advisories
Radar equipped ATC facilities provide radar assistance
to aircraft on instrument flight plans and VFR aircraft
provided the aircraft can communicate with the facility and
are within radar coverage. This basic service includes safety
alerts, traffic advisories, limited vectoring when requested,
and sequencing at locations where this procedure has been
established. ATC issues traffic advisories based on observed
radar targets. The traffic is referenced by azimuth from the
aircraft in terms of the 12-hour clock. Also, distance in
nautical miles, direction in which the target is moving, and
type and altitude of the aircraft, if known, are given.
An example would be: “Traffic 10 o’clock 5 miles east
bound, Cessna 152, 3,000 feet.” The pilot should note that
traffic position is based on the aircraft track and that wind
correction can affect the clock position at which a pilot locates
traffic. This service is not intended to relieve the pilot of the
responsibility to see and avoid other aircraft. [Figure 14-44]
In addition to basic radar service, terminal radar service
14-26

A

B
Wind

TRACK

TRACK

Trafﬁc information would be issued to the pilot of aircraft “A”
as 12 o’clock. The actual position of the trafﬁc as seen by
the pilot of aircraft “A” would be 1 o’clock. Trafﬁc information
issued to aircraft “B” would also be given as 12 o’clock, but
in this case, the pilot of “B” would see trafﬁc at 10 o’clock.
Figure 14-44. Traffic advisories.

area (TRSA) has been implemented at certain terminal
locations. TRSAs are depicted on sectional aeronautical
charts and listed in the Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly
Airport/Facility Directory). The purpose of this service is to
provide separation between all participating VFR aircraft and
all IFR aircraft operating within the TRSA. Class C service
provides approved separation between IFR and VFR aircraft
and sequencing of VFR aircraft to the primary airport. Class
B service provides approved separation of aircraft based on
IFR, VFR, and/or weight and sequencing of VFR arrivals to
the primary airport(s).

Wake Turbulence
All aircraft generate wake turbulence during flight. This
disturbance is caused by a pair of counter-rotating vortices
trailing from the wingtips. The vortices from larger aircraft
pose problems to encountering aircraft. The wake of these
aircraft can impose rolling moments exceeding the rollcontrol authority of the encountering aircraft. Also, the
turbulence generated within the vortices can damage aircraft
components and equipment if encountered at close range. For
this reason, a pilot must envision the location of the vortex
wake and adjust the flight path accordingly.
Vortex Generation
Lift is generated by the creation of a pressure differential over
the wing surface. The lowest pressure occurs over the upper
wing surface and the highest pressure under the wing. This
pressure differential triggers the rollup of the airflow aft of
the wing resulting in swirling air masses trailing downstream
of the wingtips. After the rollup is completed, the wake
consists of two counter rotating cylindrical vortices. Most of
the energy lies within a few feet of the center of each vortex.
[Figure 14-45]

Figure 14-45. Vortex generation.

Vortex Strength

Terminal Area

Wake turbulence has historically been thought of as only
a function of aircraft weight, but recent research considers
additional parameters, such as speed, aspects of the wing, wake
decay rates, and aircraft resistance to wake, just to name a few.
The vortex characteristics of any aircraft will be changed with
the extension of flaps or other wing configuration devices, as
well as changing speed. However, as the basic factors are weight
and speed, the vortex strength increases proportionately with
an increase in aircraft operating weight or decrease in aircraft
speed. The greatest vortex strength occurs when the generating
aircraft is heavy, slow, and clean, since the turbulence from a
“dirty” aircraft configuration hastens wake decay.

En Route
En route wake turbulence events have been influenced by
changes to the aircraft fleet mix that have more “Super”
(A380) and “Heavy” (B-747, B-777, A340, etc.) aircraft

operating in the NAS. There have been wake turbulence
events in excess of 30NM and 2000 feet lower than the wake
generating aircraft. Air density is also a factor in wake strength.
Even though the speeds are higher in cruise at high altitude,
the reduced air density may result in wake strength comparable
to that in the terminal area. In addition, for a given separation
distance, the higher speeds in cruise result in less time for the
wake to decay before being encountered by a trailing aircraft.
Vortex Behavior
Trailing vortices have certain behavioral characteristics
that can help a pilot visualize the wake location and take
avoidance precautions.
Vortices are generated from the moment an aircraft leaves the
ground (until it touches down), since trailing vortices are the
byproduct of wing lift. [Figure 14-46] The vortex circulation
is outward, upward, and around the wingtips when viewed
from either ahead or behind the aircraft. Tests with large

25

Wake ends

Wake begins
Rotation

Touchdown

Figure 14-46. Vortex behavior.

14-27

aircraft have shown that vortices remain spaced a bit less than
a wingspan apart, drifting with the wind, at altitudes greater
than a wingspan from the ground. Tests have also shown that
the vortices sink at a rate of several hundred feet per minute,
slowing their descent and diminishing in strength with time
and distance behind the generating aircraft.
When the vortices of larger aircraft sink close to the ground
(within 100 to 200 feet), they tend to move laterally over
the ground at a speed of 2–3 knots. A crosswind decreases
the lateral movement of the upwind vortex and increases
the movement of the downwind vortex. A light quartering
tailwind presents the worst case scenario as the wake
vortices could be all present along a significant portion of
the final approach and extended centerline and not just in the
touchdown zone as typically expected.
Vortex Avoidance Procedures
The following procedures are in place to assist pilots in vortex
avoidance in the given scenario.
•

Landing behind a larger aircraft on the same runway—
stay at or above the larger aircraft’s approach
flight path and land beyond its touchdown point.
[Figure 14-47A]

•

Landing behind a larger aircraft on a parallel runway
closer than 2,500 feet—consider the possibility of drift
and stay at or above the larger aircraft’s final approach
flight path and note its touchdown point. [Figure 14-47B]

•

Landing behind a larger aircraft on crossing runway—
cross above the larger aircraft’s flight path.

•

Landing behind a departing aircraft on the same
runway—land prior to the departing aircraft’s
rotating point.

•

Landing behind a larger aircraft on a crossing
runway—note the aircraft’s rotation point and, if that
point is past the intersection, continue and land prior
to the intersection. If the larger aircraft rotates prior
to the intersection, avoid flight below its flight path.
Abandon the approach unless a landing is ensured well
before reaching the intersection. [Figure 14-47C]

landing (since vortices settle and move laterally
near the ground, the vortex hazard may exist along
the runway and in the flight path, particularly in a
quartering tailwind), it is prudent to wait at least 2
minutes prior to a takeoff or landing.
•

En route, it is advisable to avoid a path below and
behind a large aircraft, and if a large aircraft is
observed above on the same track, change the aircraft
position laterally and preferably upwind.

Collision Avoidance
Title 14 of the CFR part 91 has established right-of-way
rules, minimum safe altitudes, and VFR cruising altitudes
to enhance flight safety. The pilot can contribute to collision
avoidance by being alert and scanning for other aircraft. This
is particularly important in the vicinity of an airport.
Effective scanning is accomplished with a series of short,
regularly spaced eye movements that bring successive areas of
the sky into the central visual field. Each movement should not
exceed 10°, and each should be observed for at least 1 second
to enable detection. Although back and forth eye movements
seem preferred by most pilots, each pilot should develop a
scanning pattern that is most comfortable and then adhere to
it to assure optimum scanning. Even if entitled to the right-ofway, a pilot should yield if another aircraft seems too close.
Clearing Procedures
The following procedures and considerations are in place to
assist pilots in collision avoidance under various situations:
•

Before takeoff—prior to taxiing onto a runway or
landing area in preparation for takeoff, pilots should
scan the approach area for possible landing traffic,
executing appropriate maneuvers to provide a clear
view of the approach areas.

•

Climbs and descents—during climbs and descents in
flight conditions that permit visual detection of other
traffic, pilots should execute gentle banks left and right at a
frequency that permits continuous visual scanning of the
airspace.

•

Departing behind a large aircraft—rotate prior to the
large aircraft’s rotation point and climb above its climb
path until turning clear of the wake.

•

Straight and level—during sustained periods of
straight-and-level flight, a pilot should execute
appropriate clearing procedures at periodic intervals.

•

For intersection takeoffs on the same runway—
be alert to adjacent larger aircraft operations,
particularly upwind of the runway of intended use.
If an intersection takeoff clearance is received, avoid
headings that cross below the larger aircraft’s path.

•

Traffic patterns—entries into traffic patterns while
descending should be avoided.

•

Traffic at VOR sites—due to converging traffic,
sustained vigilance should be maintained in the
vicinity of VORs and intersections.

•

Training operations—vigilance should be maintained and
clearing turns should be made prior to a practice
maneuver. During instruction, the pilot should be asked
to verbalize the clearing procedures (call out “clear left,
right, above, and below”).

•

14-28

If departing or landing after a large aircraft executing
a low approach, missed approach, or touch-and-go

W

IN
D

A

Touchdown point of larger aircraft
Side view

B

Aircraft altitude is above wake
Less than 2500 feet

Touchdown point

W

IN

D

Parallel Runway Situation

C

Aircraft altitude is above wake

Aircraft crossing over
wake turbulence

Figure 14-47. Vortex avoidance procedures.

14-29

High-wing and low-wing aircraft have their respective
blind spots. The pilot of a high-wing aircraft should
momentarily raise the wing in the direction of the intended
turn and look for traffic prior to commencing the turn. The
pilot of a low- wing aircraft should momentarily lower the
wing and look for traffic prior to commencing the turn.

•
•
•

Training Operations
Operators of pilot training programs are urged to adopt the
following practices:
•

•
•
•

Pilots undergoing flight instruction at all levels
should be requested to verbalize clearing
procedures (call out “clear” left, right, above, or
below) to instill and sustain the habit of vigilance
during maneuvering.
High-wing airplane. Momentarily raise the wing
in the direction of the intended turn and look.
Low-wing airplane. Momentarily lower the wing
in the direction of the intended turn and look.
Appropriate clearing procedures should precede
the execution of all turns including chandelles,
lazy eights, stalls, slow flight, climbs, straight and
level, spins, and other combination maneuvers.

Best practices to see and avoid:
•

Scanning Techniques for Traffic Avoidance
•

•

•

14-30

Pilots must be aware of the limitations inherent in
the visual scanning process. These limitations
may include:
Reduced scan frequency due to concentration on
flight instruments or tablets and distraction with
passengers.
Blind spots related to high-wing and low-wing
aircraft in addition to windshield posts and sun
visors.

Prevailing weather conditions including reduced
visibility and the position of the sun.
The attitude of the aircraft will create additional
blind spots.
The physical limitations of the human eye,
including the time required to (re)focus on near
and far objects, from the instruments to the
horizon for example; empty field myopia, narrow
field of vision and atmospheric lighting all affect
our ability to detect another aircraft.

•

•
•

ADS-B In is an effective system to help pilots see
and avoid other aircraft. If your aircraft is
equipped with ADS-B In, it is important to
understand its features and how to use it properly.
Many units provide visual and/or audio alerts to
supplement the system's traffic display. Pilots
should incorporate the traffic display in their
normal traffic scan to provide awareness of
nearby aircraft. Prior to taxiing onto an airport
movement area, ADS-B In can provide advance
indication of arriving aircraft and aircraft in the
traffic pattern. Systems that incorporate a trafficalerting feature can help minimize the pilot's
inclination to fixate on the display. Refer to 4-57e, ADS-B Limitations.
Understand the limitations of ADS-B In. In
certain airspace, not all aircraft will be equipped
with ADS-B Out or transponders and will not be
visible on your ADS-B In display.
Limit the amount of time that you focus on flight
instruments or tablets.
Develop a strategic approach to scanning for
traffic. Scan the entire sky and try not to focus
straight ahead.

Pilot Deviations (PDs)
A pilot deviation (PD) is an action of a pilot that violates any
Federal Aviation Regulation. While PDs should be avoided,
the regulations do authorize deviations from a clearance in
response to a traffic alert and collision avoidance
system resolution advisory. You must notify ATC as soon as
possible following a deviation.
Pilot deviations can occur in several different
ways. Airborne deviations result when a pilot
strays from an assigned heading or altitude or from
an instrument procedure, or if the pilot penetrates
controlled or restricted airspace without ATC clearance.
To prevent airborne deviations, follow these steps:
•

•

•

Plan each flight—you may have flown the flight many
times before but conditions and situations can change
rapidly, such as in the case of a pop-up temporary
flight restriction (TFR). Take a few minutes prior to
each flight to plan accordingly.
Talk and squawk—Proper communication with ATC
has its benefits. Flight following often makes the
controller’s job easier because they can better integrate
VFR and IFR traffic.
Give yourself some room—GPS is usually more
precise than ATC radar. Using your GPS to fly up
to and along the line of the airspace you are trying to
avoid could result in a pilot deviation because ATC
radar may show you within the restricted airspace.

Ground deviations (also called surface deviations) include
taxiing, taking off, or landing without clearance, deviating
from an assigned taxi route, or failing to hold short of an
assigned clearance limit. To prevent ground deviations, stay
alert during ground operations. Pilot deviations can and
frequently do occur on the ground. Many strategies and tactics
pilots use to avoid airborne deviations also work on the ground.
Pilots should also remain vigilant about vehicle/pedestrian
deviations (V/PDs). A vehicle or pedestrian
deviation includes pedestrians, vehicles or other objects
interfering with aircraft operations by entering or
moving on the runway movement area without
authorization from air traffic control. In serious
instances, any ground deviation (PD or VPD) can result
in a runway incursion. Best practices in preventing
ground deviations can be found in the following section
under runway incursion avoidance.

Runway Incursion Avoidance
A runway incursion is “any occurrence in the airport runway
environment involving an aircraft, vehicle, person, or object
on the ground that creates a collision hazard or results in a loss
of required separation with an aircraft taking off, intending
to take off, landing, or intending to land.” It is important
to give the same attention to operating on the surface as in
other phases of flights. Proper planning can prevent runway
incursions and the possibility of a ground collision. A pilot
should always be aware of the aircraft’s position on the
surface at all times and be aware of other aircraft and vehicle
operations on the airport. At times, towered airports can be
busy and taxi instructions complex. In this situation, it may
be advisable to write down taxi instructions. The following
are some practices to help prevent a runway incursion:
•

Read back all runway crossing and/or hold
instructions.

•

Review airport layouts as part of preflight
planning, before descending to land and while
taxiing, as needed.

•

Know airport signage.

•

Review NOTAM for information on runway/
taxiway closures and construction areas.

•

Request progressive taxi instructions from ATC
when unsure of the taxi route.

•

Check for traffic before crossing any runway hold
line and before entering a taxiway.

•

Turn on aircraft lights and the rotating beacon or
strobe lights while taxing.

•

When landing, clear the active runway as soon
as possible, then wait for taxi instructions before
further movement.

•

Study and use proper phraseology in order
to understand and respond to ground control
instructions.

•

Write down complex taxi instructions at
unfamiliar airports.

Approximately three runway incursions occur each day at
towered airports within the United States. The potential
that these numbers present for a catastrophic accident
is unacceptable. The following are examples of pilot
deviations, operational incidents (OI), and vehicle (driver)
deviations that may lead to runway incursions.

14-31

Pilot Deviations:
•

Crossing a runway hold marking without clearance
from ATC

•

Taking off without clearance

•

Landing without clearance

Operational Incidents (OI):
•

Clearing an aircraft onto a runway while another
aircraft is landing on the same runway

•

Issuing a takeoff clearance while the runway is
occupied by another aircraft or vehicle

Vehicle (Driver) Deviations:
•

Crossing a runway hold marking without ATC
clearance

According to FAA data, approximately 65 percent of all
runway incursions are caused by pilots. Of the pilot runway
incursions, FAA data shows almost half of those incursions
are caused by GA pilots.
Causal Factors of Runway Incursions
Detailed investigations of runway incursions over the past
10 years have identified three major areas contributing to
these events:
•

Failure to comply with ATC instructions

•

Lack of airport familiarity

•

Nonconformance with standard operating procedures

Clear, concise, and effective pilot/controller communication is
paramount to safe airport surface operations. You must fully
understand and comply with all ATC instructions. It is mandatory
to read back all runway “hold short” instructions verbatim.
Taxiing on an unfamiliar airport can be very challenging,
especially during hours of darkness or low visibility. A
request may be made for progressive taxi instructions which
include step by step taxi routing instructions. Ensure you
have a current airport diagram, remain “heads-up” with eyes
outside, and devote your entire attention to surface navigation
per ATC clearance. All checklists should be completed while
the aircraft is stopped. There is no place for non-essential
chatter or other activities while maintaining vigilance during
taxi. [Figure 14-48]
Runway Confusion
Runway confusion is a subset of runway incursions and
often results in you unintentionally taking off or landing on
a taxiway or wrong runway. Generally, you are unaware of
the mistake until after it has occurred.
14-32

Figure 14-48. Heads-up, eyes outside.

In August 2006, the flight crew of a commercial regional jet
was cleared for takeoff on Runway 22 but mistakenly lined
up and departed on Runway 26, a much shorter runway. As
a result, the aircraft crashed off the end of the runway.

Causal Factors of Runway Confusion
There are three major factors that increase the risk of runway
confusion and can lead to a wrong runway departure:
•

Airport complexity

•

Close proximity of runway thresholds

•

Joint use of a runway as a taxiway

Not only can airport complexity contribute to a runway
incursion; it can also play a significant role in runway
confusion. If you are operating at an unfamiliar airport and
need assistance in executing the taxi clearance, do not hesitate
to ask ATC for help. Always carry a current airport diagram
and trace or highlight your taxi route to the departure runway
prior to leaving the ramp.
If you are operating from an airport with runway thresholds
in close proximity to one another, exercise extreme caution
when taxiing onto the runway. Figure 14-49 shows a perfect
example of a taxiway leading to multiple runways that may
cause confusion. If departing on Runway 36, ensure that you
set your aircraft heading “bug” to 360°, and align your aircraft
to the runway heading to avoid departing from the wrong
runway. Before adding power, make one last instrument scan
to ensure the aircraft heading and runway heading are aligned.
Under certain circumstances, it may be necessary to
use a runway as a taxiway. For example, during airport
construction some taxiways may be closed requiring rerouting of traffic onto runways. In other cases, departing
traffic may be required to back taxi on the runway in order
to utilize the full runway length.

36

Another way to mitigate the risk of runway incursions is to
write down all taxi instructions as soon as they are received
from ATC. [Figure 14-50] It is also helpful to monitor ATC
clearances and instructions that are issued to other aircraft.
You should be especially vigilant if another aircraft has a
similar sounding call sign so there is no mistake about who
ATC is contacting or to whom they are giving instructions
and clearances.
Read back your complete ATC clearance with your aircraft
call sign. This gives ATC the opportunity to clarify any
misunderstandings and ensure that instructions were given to
the correct aircraft. If, at any time, there is uncertainty about
any ATC instructions or clearances, ask ATC to “say again”
or ask for progressive taxi instructions.

ATC Instructions—“Hold Short”
The most important sign and marking on the airport is the
hold sign and hold marking. These are located on a stub
taxiway leading directly to a runway. They depict the holding
position or the location where the aircraft is to stop so as not to
enter the runway environment. [Figure 14-51] For example,
Figure 14-52 shows the holding position sign and marking
for Runway 13 and Runway 31.

Figure 14-49. Confusing runway/runway intersection.

Since inattention and confusion often are factors contributing to
runway incursion, it is important to remain extremely cautious
and maintain situational awareness (SA). When instructed to
use a runway as a taxiway, do not become confused and take
off on the runway you are using as a taxiway.

When ATC issues a “hold short” clearance, you are
expected to taxi up to, but not cross any part of the runway
holding marking. At a towered airport, runway hold
markings should never be crossed without explicit ATC
instructions. Do not enter a runway at a towered airport
unless instructions are given from ATC to cross, takeoff
from, or “line up and wait” on that specific runway.
ATC is required to obtain a read-back from the pilot of
all runway “hold short” instructions. Therefore, you
must read back the entire clearance and “hold short”
instruction, to include runway identifier and your call sign.

ATC Instructions
Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations (14 CFR) part
91, section 91.123 requires you to follow all ATC clearances
and instructions. Request clarification if you are unsure of the
clearance or instruction to be followed. If you are unfamiliar
with the airport or unsure of a taxi route, ask ATC for a
“progressive taxi.” Progressive taxi requires the controller
to provide step-by-step taxi instructions.
The final decision to act on ATC’s instruction rests with you.
If you cannot safely comply with any of ATC’s instructions,
inform them immediately by using the word “UNABLE.”
There is nothing wrong with telling a controller that you are
unable to safely comply with the clearance.

Figure 14-50. A sound practice is to write down taxi instructions

from ATC.

14-33

Controller
November 477ZA,
Runway four, taxi via
Echo, hold short of
Runway two five at
Taxiway Delta.
Pilot
November 477ZA,
Runway four via Echo,
hold short of Runway
two five at Delta.

Figure 14-53. Example of taxi and “hold short” instructions from
ATC to a pilot.
Figure 14-51. Do NOT cross a runway holding position marking

without ATC clearance. If the tower is closed or you are operating
from a non-towered airport, check both directions for conflicting
traffic before crossing the hold position marking.

Figure 14-53 shows an example of a controller’s taxi and “hold
short” instructions and the reply from the pilot.

ATC Instructions—Explicit Runway Crossing
As of June 30, 2010, ATC is required to issue explicit
instructions to “cross” or “hold short” of each runway.
Instructions to “cross” a runway are normally issued one at a
time, and an aircraft must have crossed the previous runway
before another runway crossing is issued. Exceptions may
apply for closely spaced runways that have less than 1,000
feet between centerlines. This applies to all runways to include
active, inactive, or closed. Figure 14-54 shows communication
between ATC and a pilot who is requesting a taxi clearance.
Extra caution should be used when directed by ATC to
taxi onto or across a runway, especially at night and during
reduced visibility conditions. Always comply with “hold

short” or crossing instructions when approaching an entrance
to a runway. Scan the full length of the runway and the final
approaches before entering or crossing any runway, even if
ATC has issued a clearance.

ATC Instructions—“Line Up and Wait” (LUAW)
ATC now uses the “line up and wait” (LUAW) instruction
when a takeoff clearance cannot be issued immediately due
to traffic or other reasons. The words “line up and wait” have
replaced “position and hold” in directing you to taxi onto a
runway and await takeoff clearance.
An ATC instruction to “line up and wait” is not a clearance
for takeoff. It is only a clearance to enter the runway and
hold in position for takeoff. Under LUAW phraseology, the
controller states the aircraft call sign, departure runway, and
“line up and wait.” Be aware that “traffic holding in position”
will continue to be used to advise other aircraft that traffic
has been authorized to line up and wait on an active runway.
Pay close attention when instructed to “line up and wait,”
especially at night or during periods of low visibility. Before
Pilot
“Ground, November 1234
ready to taxi from the GA
ramp with Bravo.”

ATC

“November 1234,
Runway two seven, taxi
via Alpha, hold short
of Runway three one.”
Pilot
“November 1234,
Runway two seven, taxi
via Alpha, hold short
Runway three one.”
ATC
When able, tower will
issue crossing clearance:
“November 1234, cross
Runway three one.”

Figure 14-52. Runway 13-31 holding position sign and marking
located on Taxiway Charlie.

14-34

Figure 14-54. Communication between ATC and a pilot who is
requesting taxi procedures.

entering the runway, remember to scan the full length of the
runway and its approach end for other aircraft.
There have been collisions and incidents involving aircraft
instructed to “line up and wait” while ATC waits for the
necessary conditions to issue a takeoff clearance. An OI
caused a 737 to land on a runway occupied by a twin-engine
turboprop. The turboprop was holding in position awaiting
takeoff clearance. Upon landing, the 737 collided with the
twin-engine turboprop.
When ATC instructs you to “line up and wait,” they should
advise you of any anticipated delay in receiving your takeoff
clearance. Possible reasons for ATC takeoff clearance delays
may include other aircraft landing and/or departing, wake
turbulence, or traffic crossing an intersecting runway.
•

If advised of a reason for the delay, or the reason is
clearly visible, expect an imminent takeoff clearance
once the reason is no longer an issue.

•

If a takeoff clearance is not received within 90 seconds
after receiving the “line up and wait” instruction,
contact ATC immediately.

•

When ATC issues “line up and wait” instructions
and takeoff clearances from taxiway intersection, the
taxiway designator is included.
Example – “N123AG Runway One-Eight, at Charlie
Three, line up and wait.”
Example – “N123AG Runway One-Eight, at Charlie
Three, cleared for takeoff.”

If LUAW procedures are being used and landing traffic is a
factor, ATC is required to:
•

Inform the aircraft in the LUAW position of the closest
aircraft that is requesting a full-stop, touch-and-go,
stop-and-go, option, or unrestricted low approach.
Example – “N123AG, Runway One-Eight, line up
and wait, traffic a Cessna 210 on a six-mile final.”

•

In some cases, where safety logic is being used, ATC
is permitted to issue landing clearances with traffic in
the LUAW position. Traffic information is issued to
the landing traffic.
Example – “N456HK, Runway One-Eight, cleared to
land, traffic a DeHavilland Otter holding in position.”
NOTE: ATC will/must issue a takeoff clearance to the
traffic holding in position in sufficient time to ensure
no conflict exists with landing aircraft. Prescribed
runway separation must exist no later than when the
landing aircraft crosses the threshold.

•

In cases where ATC is not permitted to issue landing
clearances with traffic in the LUAW position, traffic
information is issued to the closest aircraft that is
requesting a full-stop, touch-and-go, stop-and-go,
option, or unrestricted low approach.
Example – “N456HK, Runway One-Eight, continue,
traffic holding in position.”

ATC Instructions—“Runway Shortened”
You should review NOTAMs in your preflight planning to
determine any airport changes that will affect your departure
or arrival. When the available runway length has been
temporarily or permanently shortened due to construction,
the ATIS includes the words “warning” and “shortened” in
the text of the message. For the duration of the construction
when the runway is temporarily shortened, ATC will
include the word “shortened” in their clearance instructions.
Furthermore, the use of the term “full length” will not be used
by ATC during this period of the construction.
Some examples of ATC instructions are:
•

“Runway three six shortened, line up and wait.”

•

“Runway three six shortened, cleared for takeoff.”

•

“Runway three six shortened, cleared to land.”

When an intersection departure is requested on a temporarily
or permanently shortened runway during the construction,
the remaining length of runway is included in the clearance.
For example, “Runway three six at Echo, intersection
departure, 5,600 feet available.” If following the construction,
the runway is permanently shortened, ATC will include
the word “shortened” until the Chart Supplement U.S.
(formerly Airport/Facility Directory) is updated to include
the permanent changes to the runway length.
Pre-Landing, Landing, and After-Landing
While en route and after receiving the destination airport
ATIS/landing information, review the airport diagram and
brief yourself as to your exit taxiway. Determine the following:
•

Are there any runway hold markings in close proximity
to the exit taxiway?

•

Do not cross any hold markings or exit onto any
runways without ATC clearance.

After landing, use the utmost caution where the exit taxiways
intersect another runway, and do not exit onto another runway
without ATC authorization. Do not accept last minute
turnoff instructions from the control tower unless you clearly
understand the instructions and are at a speed that ensures you

14-35

can safely comply. Finally, after landing and upon exiting
the runway, ensure your aircraft has completely crossed over
the runway hold markings. Once all parts of the aircraft have
crossed the runway holding position markings, you must hold
unless further instructions have been issued by ATC. Do not
initiate non-essential communications or actions until the
aircraft has stopped and the brakes set.

Engineered Materials Arresting Systems
(EMAS)
Aircraft can and do overrun the ends of runways and
sometimes with devastating results. An overrun occurs
when an aircraft passes beyond the end of a runway during
an aborted takeoff or on landing rollout. To minimize the
hazards of overruns, the FAA incorporated the concept of
a runway safety area (RSA) beyond the runway end into
airport design standards. At most commercial airports, the
RSA is 500 feet wide and extends 1,000 feet beyond each
end of the runway. The FAA implemented this requirement
in the event that an aircraft overruns, undershoots, or veers
off the side of the runway.
The most dangerous of these incidents are overruns, but
since many airports were built before the 1,000-foot RSA
length was adopted some 20 years ago, the area beyond the
end of the runway is where many airports cannot achieve the
full standard RSA. This is due to obstacles, such as bodies
of water, highways, railroads, populated areas, or severe
drop-off of terrain. Under these specific circumstances, the
installation of an Engineered Materials Arresting System
(EMAS) is an acceptable alternative to a RSA beyond the
runway end. It provides a level of safety that is generally
equivalent to a full RSA. [Figure 14-55]
An EMAS uses materials of closely controlled strength and
density placed at the end of a runway to stop or greatly slow
an aircraft that overruns the runway. The best material found
to date is a lightweight, crushable concrete. When an aircraft
rolls into an EMAS arrestor bed, the tires of the aircraft sink
into the lightweight concrete and the aircraft is decelerated
by having to roll through the material. [Figure 14-56]
Incidents
To date, there have been several incidents listed below where
the EMAS technology has worked successfully to arrest
aircraft that overrun the runway. All cases have resulted in
minimal to do damage to the aircraft. The only known injury
was an ankle injury to a passenger during egress following
the arrestment. [Figure 14-57]
•

14-36

May 1999—A Saab 340 commuter aircraft overran
the runway at John F. Kennedy International Airport
(JFK).

Figure 14-55. Engineered material arresting system (EMAS)

located at Yeager Airport, Charleston, West Virginia.

•

May 2003—A Cargo McDonnell Douglas (MD)-11
overran the runway at JFK.

•

January 2005—A Boeing 747 overran the runway at
JFK.

•

July 2006—A Mystere Falcon 900 overran the
runway at Greenville Downtown Airport (KGMU)
in Greenville, South Carolina.

•

July 2008—An Airbus A320 overran the runway at
O’Hare International Airport (ORD).

•

January 2010—A Bombardier CRJ-200 regional jet
overran the runway at Yeager Airport (KCRW) in
Charleston, West Virginia (WV). [Figure 14-58]

•

October 2010—A G-4 Gulfstream overran the
runway at Teterboro Airport (KTEB) in Teterboro,
New Jersey (NJ).

•

November 2011—A Cessna Citation 550 overran the
runway at Key West International Airport (KEYW)
in Key West, Florida.

EMAS Installations and Information
Currently, EMAS is installed at 63 runway ends at 42 airports
in the United States with plans to install more throughout the
next few years.
EMAS information is available in the Chart Supplement
U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility Directory) under the specific
airport information. Figure 14-59 shows airport information
for Boston Logan International Airport. At the bottom of the
page, it shows which runways are equipped with arresting
systems and the type that they have. It is important for pilots
to study airport information, become familiar with the details
and limitations of the arresting system, and the runways that
are equipped with them. [Figure 14-60]

Typical Plan View
Runway safety area length
Set back

ARRESTOR BED

Runway width

Runway

Side steps
An EMASMAX bed is typically the full width of the runway and the arrestor bed is set-back from the end of the runway.

Typical Profile View
Debris deflector
over concrete beam

Arrestor bed

Lead in ramp

Side steps

Base surface
The front of an EMASMAX bed includes a lead-in ramp to transition the aircraft into the material.

Typical Section View
Arrestor bed
Stepped sides provide arff
access and passenger egress

Base surface
• Beyond the runway width, the sides of an EMASMAX bed are stepped to provide emergency vehicle access and passenger
egress.
• The length of the EMAS bed is dependent upon the space available in the existing RSA and the design aircraft for the EMAS.
• As stated in FAA Advisory Circular 150/5220-22A, Engineered Materials Arresting Systems (EMAS) for Aircraft Overruns, the
EMAS is designed to arrest aircraft exiting the runway at speeds between 40 and 70 knots. 70 knots is the preferred EMAS
design runway exit speed but in limited spaces, the EMAS may have design runway exit speeds as low as 40 knots.
Figure 14-56. Diagram of an EMASMAX system.

Pilot Considerations
Although engaging an EMAS should not be a desired
outcome for the end of a flight, pilots need to know what
EMAS is, how to identify it on the airfield diagram and
on the airfield, as well as knowing what to do should they
find themselves approaching an installation in an overrun
situation. [Figure 14-59 and Figure 14-60] Pilots also need
to know that an EMAS may not stop lightweight general
aviation aircraft that are not heavy enough to sink into the
crushable concrete. The time to discuss whether or not a
runway has an EMAS at the end is during the pre-departure
briefing prior to takeoff or during the approach briefing prior

to commencing the approach. Following the guidance below
ensures that the aircraft engages the EMAS according to the
design entry parameters.
During the takeoff or landing phase, if a pilot determines that
the aircraft will exit the runway end and enter the EMAS, the
following guidance should be adhered to:
1.

Continue deceleration - Regardless of aircraft speed
upon exiting the runway, continue to follow Rejected/
Aborted Takeoff procedures, or if landing, Maximum
Braking procedures outlined in the Flight Manual.

14-37

Figure 14-57. There have been several incidents where the EMAS
has successfully arrested the aircraft.

2.

Maintain runway centerline - Not veering left or right
of the bed and continuing straight ahead will maximize
stopping capability of the EMAS bed. The quality of
deceleration will be best within the confines of the bed.

3.

Maintain deceleration efforts - The arrestor bed is a
passive system, so this is the only action required by
the pilot.

4.

Once stopped, do not attempt to taxi or otherwise move
the aircraft.

Chapter Summary
This chapter focused on airport operations both in the air and
on the surface. For specific information about an unfamiliar
airport, consult the Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly
Airport/Facility Directory) and NOTAMS before flying. For
further information regarding procedures discussed in this
chapter, refer to 14 CFR part 91 and the AIM. By adhering
to established procedures, both airport operations and safety
are enhanced.
This chapter is also designed to help you attain an
understanding of the risks associated with surface navigation
and is intended to provide you with basic information
regarding the safe operation of aircraft at towered and
nontowered airports. This chapter focuses on the following
major areas:
•

Runway incursion overview

•

Taxi route planning

•

Taxi procedures

•

Communications

•

Airport signs, markings and lighting

14-38

Figure 14-58. A Bombardier CRJ-200 regional jet overran the

runway at Yeager Airport (KCRW) in Charleston, West Virginia.

The chapter identifies best practices to help you avoid errors
that may potentially lead to runway incursions. Although the
chapter pertains mostly to surface movements for single-pilot
operations, all of the information is relevant for flight crew
operations as well.
Additional information about surface operations is available
through the following sources:
•

Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Runway
Safety website—www.faa.gov/go/runwaysafety

•

FAA National Aeronautical Navigation Services
(AeroNav), formerly known as the National
Aeronautical Charting Office (NACO)—www.faa.
gov/air_traffic/flight_info/aeronav

•

Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/Facility
Directory)—www.faa.gov/air_traffic/flight_info/
aeronav/digital_products/dafd/search/

•

Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS)

•

Notice to Airmen (NOTAMs)—http://www.faa.gov/
pilots/flt_plan/notams

•

Advisory Circular (AC) 91-73, part 91 and part 135,
Single-Pilot and Flight School Procedures During Taxi
Operations

•

Aeronautical Information Manual (AIM)—www.faa.
gov/air_traffic/publications/atpubs/aim/

•

AC 120-74, parts 91, 121, 125, and 135, Flight Crew
Procedures During Taxi Operations

rn
av
ig
at
io
n
fo
ed
us
be
to
No
t
Figure 14-59. EMAS information for Boston Logan International Airport located in the Chart Supplement U.S. (formerly Airport/
Facility Directory).

14-39

ga
tio
n
av
i
rn
14-40

NE-1, 28 JUL 2011 to 25 AUG 2011

fo
ed
us

N

ot

to

be

NE-1, 28 JUL 2011 to 25 AUG 2011

Figure 14-60. An airport diagram with EMAS information.

14-40

