                                                      FAA-G-ACS-1
                                                 (with Changes 1 & 2)



U.S. Department
of Transportation

Federal Aviation
Administration




                      Companion Guide
                              to the
           Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and
         Powerplant Airman Certification Standards




                      Flight Standards Service
                       Washington, DC 20591
Change 2 (September 2024)
                                              Foreword

The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) developed FAA-G-ACS-1, Companion Guide to the Aviation
Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Airman Certification Standards, to be used as a companion
guide to FAA-S-ACS-1, Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Airman Certification
Standards (ACS).

This guide contains information that may be used in concert with the regulatory material in the ACS and
assists the applicant and examiner in preparing for the knowledge, oral, and practical tests.

This guide and the ACS are available for download from www.faa.gov/training_testing/testing/acs.

Please send comments regarding this document using the following link to the Airman Testing Branch
Mailbox (afs630comments@faa.gov).




                                                  2
                                     Revision History


                                                                            Development
Document #    Description                                                   Date
              Companion Guide for Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and
FAA-G-ACS-1                                                                May 2022
              Powerplant Airman Certification Standards
              Companion Guide for Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and
FAA-G-ACS-1                                                                January 2023
              Powerplant Airman Certification Standards (with Change 1)
              Companion Guide for Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and
FAA-G-ACS-1                                                                  September 2024
              Powerplant Airman Certification Standards (with Changes 1 & 2)




                                            3
                                              Record of Changes

Change 1 (January 2023)
Revised the last paragraph in the “Retesting the Oral and Practical” section of Chapter 7: Oral and Practical Test
Results.

Change 2 (September 2024)
Updated the hyperlink in the Foreword to point directly to the ACS webpage on faa.gov (page i).




                                                        4
                                                                       Table of Contents

Introduction ................................................................................................................................................................. 6
Chapter 1: Overview of Mechanic Testing Process .................................................................................................. 8
Chapter 2: How to Use the ACS .............................................................................................................................. 11
Chapter 3: Written Test Description ........................................................................................................................ 12
Chapter 4: How to Register for an FAA Airman Knowledge Test ........................................................................... 15
Chapter 5: Airman Knowledge Test Report (AKTR)................................................................................................ 19
Chapter 6: The Oral and Practical (O&P) Test Process .......................................................................................... 20
Chapter 7: Oral and Practical Test Results ............................................................................................................. 24
Chapter 8: References............................................................................................................................................. 25
Chapter 9: Abbreviations and Acronyms ................................................................................................................. 26




                                                                                       5
                                                Introduction


Why We Created This Guide
The FAA created this guide to provide information on non-regulatory material regarding the FAA-S-ACS-
1, Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Airman Certification Standards that is relevant
and useful to the community. The regulatory material is found in the ACS.
The FAA notes that the Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Airman Certification
Standards will be used as the testing standard for the written, oral, and practical tests after July 31, 2023.
Therefore, this guidance will be applicable after July 31, 2023. Until July 31, 2023, the FAA will use the
Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Practical Test Standards as the testing standard.

How This Guide Works with the ACS
The material in this guide is for informational purposes. The guide is designed to provide the applicant
for a certificate or rating with test preparatory information. The guide also provides a list of references
and abbreviations/acronyms that may be used throughout the ACS for study and research.
The material in this guide is non-regulatory and may contain terms, such as should or may.
   •   Should indicates actions that are recommended, but not regulatory.
   •   May is used in a permissive sense to state authority or permission to do the act prescribed.
This guidance is not legally binding in its own right and will not be relied upon by the FAA as a separate
basis for affirmative enforcement action or other administrative penalty. Conformity with the guidance is
voluntary only and nonconformity will not affect rights and obligations under existing statutes and
regulations.

Airman Certification Standards Concept
The goal of the airman certification process is to ensure the applicant possesses knowledge, risk
management, and basic skills consistent with the privileges of the certificate or rating being exercised.
The ACS concept forms a more comprehensive standard for what an applicant knows, considers, and
does for the safe conduct and successful completion of each subject to be tested on the knowledge
(written) test and oral and practical tests. The FAA notes that while 14 CFR parts 65 and 147 use the
term “written test,” the FAA has historically used the terms “knowledge test” and “written test” in the
context of airman certification testing interchangeably and continues to do so in this companion guide.
Additionally, the terms “Mechanic” and “Aviation Maintenance Technician (AMT)” are used
interchangeably in this document.
In fulfilling its responsibilities for the airman certification process, the FAA plans, develops, and maintains
materials related to airman certification training and testing. The FAA written test measures the minimum
standard of aeronautical knowledge required by Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations (14 CFR)
part 65. Other materials, such as handbooks in the FAA-H-8083 series, provide information to applicants
on aeronautical knowledge, risk management, and associated skills, including the knowledge and skill
required to identify hazards and mitigate risks.
Safe operations on today’s aircraft require integration of aeronautical knowledge, risk management, and
skill standards. To accomplish these goals, the FAA draws upon the expertise of organizations and
individuals across the aviation and training community to develop the ACS.
The ACS defines the elements of knowledge and skill for each airman certificate or rating defined in 14
CFR part 65, subpart D.
Through the oral and practical portion of the test, the FAA evaluators assess the applicant's application
of the knowledge, risk management, and skill in the subject area. For some topics, the evaluator asks the
applicant to describe or explain. For other items, the evaluator assesses the applicant's understanding



                                                      6
by providing a scenario that requires the applicant to appropriately apply knowledge and demonstrate
skills as required for the circumstances of the given scenario.
Note: As used in the ACS, an evaluator is any person authorized to conduct airman testing (e.g., an
FAA Aviation Safety Inspector [ASI] or Designated Mechanic Examiner [DME]).
These procedures ensure that airman applicants meet a satisfactory level of competency and
workmanship required for certification. Each applicant is required to demonstrate a minimum satisfactory
competency level, regardless of their previous education or background, in order to obtain a certificate.
All applicants for an FAA Aviation Mechanic Certificate must qualify by meeting the prescribed
requirements as stated in 14 CFR part 65, section 65.77 (Experience requirements). They must
additionally pass required written tests and the oral and practical tests for the certificate or rating(s)
sought, in accordance with 14 CFR part 65, sections 65.75 (Knowledge requirements) and 65.79 (Skill
requirements). The Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant ACS is incorporated by
reference into 14 CFR part 65 as the testing standard for each test after July 31, 2023. Additionally, the
Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant ACS is incorporated by reference into 14 CFR part
147, Aviation Maintenance Technician Schools (AMTS), as the training standard.




                                                    7
                           Chapter 1: Overview of Mechanic Testing Process

Overview
The Administrator of the FAA has the authority to issue airman certificates to individuals when the
Administrator finds that the individual is qualified for and able to perform the duties related to the certificate
pursuant to 49 USC 44703. 14 CFR part 65, subpart D – Mechanics, contains the qualification regulations
to obtain a mechanic certificate. All applicants for an FAA Mechanic Certificate must qualify by meeting
the experience requirements of 14 CFR part 65, section 65.77. After meeting the applicable experience
requirements, applicants must pass a written test, appropriate to the rating sought, which covers the
subject areas contained in ACS, pursuant to 14 CFR part 65, section 65.75. After passing each section
of the written test, each applicant must pass an oral test and a practical test, as appropriate to the rating
sought, by demonstrating the assigned objectives for the subject areas contained in the ACS, pursuant
to 14 CFR part 65, section 65.79. Through the oral and practical portion of the test, the FAA assesses
the applicant's application of the knowledge, risk management, and skill in the subject area.
These procedures ensure that airman applicants meet a satisfactory level of competency and
workmanship required for certification. Each applicant is required to demonstrate a minimum satisfactory
competency level, designated in the applicable section of the ACS, regardless of their previous education
or background.
Evaluators must adhere to the applicable regulations and will follow applicable guidance when evaluating
an applicant’s test performance for an FAA Mechanic Certificate. This includes:
    •   14 CFR part 65;
    •   FAA Order 8000.95 Designee Management Policy (applicable sections as revised);
    •   FAA Order 8900.2, General Aviation Airman Designee Handbook applicable sections (as
        revised);
    •   FAA Order 8900.1, Flight Standards Information Management System (FSIMS) (as revised); and
    •   FAA-S-ACS-1, Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Airman Certification
        Standards.

Mechanic Certificate Eligibility Requirements
To be eligible to be issued a mechanic certificate and rating(s), pursuant to 14 CFR part 65, section 65.71,
an applicant must:
    •   Be at least 18 years of age;
    •   Be able to read, write, speak, and understand the English language (or in the case of an applicant
        who does not meet this requirement and who is employed outside of the U.S. by a U.S. air carrier,
        have the certificate endorsed “valid only outside the United States”);
    •   Meet the applicable experience requirements of 14 CFR part 65, section 65.77 (i.e., the applicant
        must present to the FAA either an authenticated document from a certificated aviation
        maintenance technician school in accordance with14 CFR part 147, section 147.21, or
        documentary evidence, satisfactory to the Administrator, of the prescribed amount of practical
        experience);
    •   Pass a written test, appropriate to the rating sought, in accordance with14 CFR part 65,
        section 65.75;
    •   Pass an oral test and a practical test, as appropriate to the rating sought, in accordance with14
        CFR part 65, section 65.79; and
    •   Comply with the applicable sections of 14 CFR part 65, subpart D.
Pursuant to 14 CFR part 65, section 65.75(b), the applicant must pass the applicable written tests before
applying for the oral and practical tests, unless the applicant is a student of a 14 CFR part 147 Aviation
Maintenance Technician School (AMTS) and has been approved by the FAA to test under 14 CFR part
65, section 65.80.




                                                        8
In accordance with 14 CFR part 65, section 65.71(a)(3), the applicant must have passed all of the
prescribed tests (i.e., written, oral, and practical) for the rating sought, within a period of 24 months.
Applicants who otherwise cannot meet certification requirements may submit a petition for exemption
from the applicable regulation in accordance with 14 CFR part 11. FAA field offices do not issue
exemptions. A grant of exemption is not guaranteed.

Testing under 14 CFR part 65, section 65.80
14 CFR part 65, section 65.80 permits an applicant who is a student of an AMTS to take the oral and
practical tests prior to the written tests if an AMTS shows to an FAA inspector that the applicant has made
satisfactory progress at the school and is prepared to take the oral and practical tests.

Authorization for AMTS Students to Take General Written Test Early (14 CFR part 65, section
65.75(c))
Pursuant to 14 CFR part 65, section 65.75(c), applicants who are students of an AMTS may take
the mechanic general written test prior to meeting the applicable experience requirements of 14 CFR part
65, section 65.77 provided the applicant presents an authenticated document from an AMTS that
demonstrates satisfactory completion of the general portion of the school’s curriculum and specifies the
completion date.
Note: While an AMTS is required to provide an authenticated document to each graduating student,
which can be utilized to meet the experience requirements of 14 CFR part 65, section 65.77, an AMTS
is not required to provide authenticated documentation that demonstrates satisfactory completion of the
general portion of the school’s curriculum. The FAA notes that if the AMTS does not issue such a
document, then the student will not be eligible to take the general written test early.

Aviation English Language Standard
In accordance with the requirements of 14 CFR part 65, section 65.71, and the FAA Aviation English
Language Proficiency Standard, the applicant must demonstrate the ability to read, write, speak, and
understand the English language throughout the application and testing process. English language
proficiency is required. Normal restatement of questions as would be done for a native English speaker
is permitted and does not constitute grounds for disqualification. Additional information may be found in
Advisory Circular 60-28, FAA English Language Standard for an FAA Certificate Issued Under 14 CFR
Part 61, 63, 65, and 107, as revised.

Applicant Misconduct During Written Testing
To avoid test compromise, airman knowledge testing centers follow strict security procedures established
by the FAA. The FAA has directed testing centers to terminate a test anytime a proctor suspects a
cheating incident has occurred.
No person who commits a prohibited act is eligible for any airman certificate or added rating for a period
of 1 year after the date of that act, pursuant to 14 CFR part 65, section 65.18. In addition, the commission
of that act is a basis for suspending or revoking any airman certificate or rating held by that person.

Requests for Special Accommodations
Applicants may request a special accommodation for their written test through the testing center test
registration and scheduling process. The process allows the applicant to select the specific
accommodation that meets the specific need in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990 (ADA). Requests for special accommodations are asked to include:
   •   a copy of medical documentation, including the diagnosing physician’s name and contact
       information, verifying the applicant has condition requiring a special accommodation; and
   •   the requested method of test administration.



                                                     9
Passing Grade
Pursuant to 14 CFR part 65, section 65.17, the minimum passing grade for each test is 70 percent.

Retests
An applicant for a written, oral, or practical test for a certificate or rating, or for an additional rating under
14 CFR part 65, may apply for retesting in accordance with 14 CFR part 65, section 65.19.
Retests do not require a 30-day waiting period if the applicant presents a signed statement from an airman
holding the certificate and rating(s) sought by the applicant certifying that the airman has given the
applicant additional instruction in each of the subjects failed and that the airman considers the applicant
ready for retesting.
After a 30-day waiting period for retesting, a signed statement of additional training is not required.




                                                       10
                                   Chapter 2: How to Use the ACS

Evaluators must conduct practical tests in accordance with the appropriate ACS and policies set forth in
the current version of FAA Order 8900.1, Flight Standards Information Management System.
The ACS consists of three Sections: General, Airframe, and Powerplant.
Each Section includes Subjects appropriate to that Section and consistent with the expertise necessary
to obtain a mechanic certificate under 14 CFR part 65.
Each Subject begins with an Objective stating what the applicant should know, consider, and do, as
appropriate. The ACS then lists the aeronautical knowledge, risk management, and skill elements
relevant to the specific Subjects, along with the conditions and standards for acceptable performance.
   •   Knowledge—(written test, oral test) elements are indicated by use of the words, "Exhibits
       knowledge in..."
   •   Risk—(oral test, practical test) elements are indicated by the use of the words, “Determine,
       Identify, Creates…"
   •   Skill—(practical test) elements are indicated by the use of the words, "Demonstrates the skill to
       perform..."
The ACS may use Notes to emphasize special considerations. The ACS uses the terms "will" and "must"
to convey directive (mandatory) information. The term “may” is used in a permissive sense to state
authority or permission to do the act prescribed.
Element codes in the ACS divide into four components. For example,
AM.I.A.K1:
   AM = ACS (Aviation Mechanic)
   I    = Section (General)
   A    = Subject (Basic Electricity)
   K1 = Knowledge Element (Electron theory (conventional flow vs. electron flow.))
Knowledge test questions are linked to the ACS codes, which replace the previous system of Learning
Statement Codes (LSC). After this transition, the AKTR will list an ACS code that correlates to a specific
Subject element for a given Section and Subject. This will allow remedial instruction and re-testing to be
specific and based on explicit learning criteria.
The FAA encourages applicants and instructors to use the ACS when preparing for tests.




                                                   11
                                   Chapter 3: Written Test Description

Written Test Description
The written test is an important part of the airman certification process and is developed in accordance
with the Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Airman Certification Standards as
incorporated by reference into14 CFR part 65, section 65.75. Applicants must pass the written tests
before taking the oral and practical tests (except when testing under the provision of 14 CFR part 65,
section 65.80). Written tests are effective instruments for aviation safety and regulation measurement.
However, these tests can only sample the vast amount of knowledge every AMT needs to know.
The written test consists of objective multiple-choice questions. There is a single correct response for
each test question. Each test question is independent of the other questions. A correct response to one
question does not depend on or influence the correct response to another.
There are three Aviation Maintenance Technician Written Tests:
       Written        Test Table                           # of      Age Hours            Passing
                                                           Questions                      Score
       Test Code      Test Name
       AMG            Aviation Mechanic Technician -       60            N/A   2.0        70
                      General
       AMA            Aviation Mechanic Technician -       100           N/A   2.0        70
                      Airframe
       AMP            Aviation Mechanic Technician -       100           N/A   2.0        70
                      Powerplant


Authorization To Take a Written Test.
An airman applicant may present one or more of the following item(s) to an Airman Knowledge Testing
Center to show authorization to take an AMT (mechanic) test:
   •    An authenticated document from an AMTS. The document must contain the information required
        by 14 CFR part 147, section 147.21. The completed curriculum as indicated on the document
        authorizes the applicant to take the corresponding test (i.e., either general and airframe; general
        and powerplant; or general, airframe, and powerplant).
   •    An original FAA Form 8610-2, Airman Certificate and/or Rating Application, attesting to practical
        experience. Block V must be signed and completed by an FAA Flight Standards inspector.
   •    Joint Services Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification Council (JSAMTCC) Military
        Certificate of Eligibility attesting to practical experience. The completed curriculum as indicated
        on the certificate authorizes the applicant to take the corresponding test (i.e., either general and
        airframe; general and powerplant; or general, airframe, and powerplant).
   •    If taking a retest, a previously issued AKTR with failed test results.
Note: In all instances, the applicant should retain their original document(s). The testing center will make
a copy of the document for their records.

Authorization for AMTS students to Take General Written Test Early.
Pursuant to 14 CFR part 65, section 65.75(c), an applicant may take the mechanic general written test
prior to meeting the applicable experience requirements of 14 CFR part 65, section 65.77. The applicant
must present an authenticated document from an AMTS that demonstrates satisfactory completion of the
general portion of the school’s curriculum and specifies the completion date.




                                                    12
Written Test Blueprints
The following charts show what percentage of each subject area an applicant can expect to see on their
written tests.
Note: FAA written tests contain topics that include the maintenance, repair, alteration, inspection of
aviation products, and relevant FAA regulations.


Aviation Mechanic – General                                            60-Question Test
                                                                      Percentage of Test Questions by
AMG Knowledge Areas                                                          Knowledge Area
Fundamentals of Electricity and Electronics                                         5 - 15%
Aircraft Drawings                                                                   5 - 10%
Weight and Balance                                                                  5 - 10%
Fluid Lines and Fittings                                                            5 - 10%
Aircraft Materials, Hardware, and Processes                                         5 - 10%
Ground Operations and Servicing                                                     5 - 15%
Cleaning and Corrosion Control                                                      5 - 10%
Mathematics                                                                         5 - 10%
Regulations, Maintenance Forms, Records, and Publications                           5 - 10%
Physics for Aviation                                                                5 - 10%
Inspection Concepts and Techniques                                                  5 - 10%
Human Factors                                                                       5 - 10%


Aviation Mechanic – Airframe                                          100-Question Test
                                                                      Percentage of Test Questions by
AMA Knowledge Areas                                                          Knowledge Area
Metallic Structures                                                                 5 - 15%
Non-Metallic Structures                                                             5 - 10%
Flight Controls                                                                     5 - 10%
Airframe Inspection                                                                 5 - 15%
Landing Gear Systems                                                                5 - 10%
Hydraulic and Pneumatic Systems                                                     5 - 10%
Environmental Systems                                                               5 - 10%
Aircraft Instrument Systems                                                         5 - 10%
Communication, Light Signals, and Runway Lighting Systems                           5 - 10%
Aircraft Fuel Systems                                                               5 - 10%
Aircraft Electrical Systems                                                         5 - 10%
Ice and Rain Control Systems                                                        5 - 10%
Airframe Fire Protection Systems                                                    5 - 10%



                                                   13
                                                     Percentage of Test Questions by
AMA Knowledge Areas                                         Knowledge Area
Rotorcraft Fundamentals                                          5 - 10%
Water and Waste Systems                                          5 - 10%


Aviation Mechanic – Powerplant                       100-Question Test
                                                     Percentage of Test Questions by
AMP Knowledge Areas                                         Knowledge Area
Reciprocating Engines                                            5 - 15%
Turbine Engines                                                  5 - 10%
Engine Inspection                                                5 - 10%
Engine Instrument Systems                                        5 - 10%
Engine Fire Protection Systems                                   5 - 10%
Engine Electrical Systems                                        5 - 15%
Engine Lubrication Systems                                       5 - 10%
Ignition and Starting Systems                                    5 - 10%
Engine Fuel and Fuel Metering Systems                            5 - 10%
Reciprocating Engine Induction and Cooling Systems               5 - 10%
Turbine Engine Air Systems                                       5 - 10%
Engine Exhaust and Reverser Systems                              5 - 10%
Propellers                                                       5 - 10%




                                                14
                  Chapter 4: How to Register for an FAA Airman Knowledge Test

14 CFR part 65, section 65.11, provides that application for a certificate and/or rating must be made on
a form and in a manner prescribed by the Administrator. As part of the application process, the FAA
utilizes the testing vendor PSI Services, LLC (PSI). Registering to take an FAA Airman Knowledge Test
is an easy process that can be done online or over the phone with PSI in just a few simple steps.
Note: The PSI Testing procedures are standardized to apply to all airman knowledge testing (e.g., pilots,
mechanics, dispatchers, etc.), which is referred to as the “written test” in applicable aviation mechanic
regulations. Therefore, where this guidance document utilizes the phrase “Airman Knowledge Test” in
this section, it should be understood that the FAA is referring to the aviation mechanic written test for the
purpose of meeting the knowledge requirements of 14 CFR part 65, section 65.75.

Step 1. Obtain an FAA Tracking Number
All airmen taking an FAA Airman Knowledge Test need to have an FAA tracking number (FTN) prior to
taking any test. The FTN is easily obtained and only takes a few minutes.
Integrated Airman Certification and Rating Application (IACRA) is the web-based certification/rating
application that guides the user through the FAA's airman application process for certification. To obtain
an FTN, applicants will need to follow the instructions provided on the FAA’s IACRA website located here:
https://iacra.faa.gov/IACRA/Default.aspx.
The following video provides information about creating an IACRA account and obtaining an FTN. The
specific     instructions    begin      at     the     14-minute    mark      in     the     video.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ETLsH8BruBM&feature=youtu.be.

Step 2. Create an Account with PSI
After obtaining the FTN, applicants will need to create an account with PSI. PSI is the professional testing
company contracted with the FAA to administer all FAA Airman Knowledge Tests at approved PSI testing
centers. PSI operates hundreds of testing centers that offer a full range of airman knowledge tests. For
information on authorized airman knowledge testing centers and to register, schedule, and pay for the
written test, visit faa.psiexams.com/faa/login. Using this link, an applicant can register for the respective
airman knowledge test.

Step 3. Registration: Select Test and Testing Center
After obtaining an FTN and creating an account with PSI, applicants can schedule any knowledge test
they are qualified to take. The PSI online system walks the applicant through the process of selecting a
testing center in their area and choosing the specific knowledge (written) test they wish to take.
After the test and testing center are selected, the next step in the test scheduling process is for the
applicant to select an available time slot to take the test at the selected testing center on the desired test
date, then pay for the test.

Applicant Name Considerations for AKTR and the Mechanic Application Form
The name displayed on an Airman Knowledge Test Report (AKTR) is exactly how the applicant entered
it when registering in IACRA and obtaining their FTN. The IACRA application sends basic information to
the PSI test registration system verifying the applicant’s FTN. The PSI test registration system does not
allow an applicant to make changes to their name or correct any misspellings. If an applicant needs to
make a correction to their name, it can be done within the IACRA application, then refreshed in the PSI
system when the applicant logs in again.




                                                     15
If an incorrect middle initial, spelling variant, or different middle name is on the AKTR, or if the AKTR has
a first name variation of any kind, the evaluator for the practical test will attach an explanation to the
IACRA or paper application. If the last name on the AKTR has a different spelling or suffix, an IACRA
application is not possible. The applicant will complete a paper application and the evaluator will include
an explanation to avoid a correction notice.

At the Test Center
When at the test center on the day of the test, the applicant provides proper identification. An acceptable
identification document includes a recent photograph, date of birth, signature, and actual residential
address, if different from the mailing address. This information may be presented in more than one form
of identification. Acceptable forms of identification include, but are not limited to, driver’s licenses,
government identification cards, passports, alien residency (green) cards, and military identification
cards.      Information      on     acceptable     forms     of     identification    is    available    at
www.faa.gov/training_testing/testing.
Applicants also need to present their authorization to test; refer to Chapter 3 of this guide. Information on
acceptable forms of authorization is also available at www.faa.gov/training_testing/testing.
The applicant retains all original forms/documents. The proctor will make a photocopy of the certificate
presented at the time of applicant processing and returns the original documents to the applicant.
Note: Before starting the actual test, the testing center provides an opportunity to practice navigating
through the test. This practice or tutorial session may include sample questions to familiarize the applicant
with the look and feel of the software (e.g., selecting an answer, marking a question for later review,
monitoring time remaining for the test, and other features of the testing software). PSI also provides
sample tests for registered users on their website: faa.psiexams.com/faa/login.

Acceptable and Unacceptable Materials
Except as authorized by the Administrator under 14 CFR part 65, section 65.18, no person may use any
material or aid during the period that the test is being given. The following table describes acceptable and
unacceptable aids, reference materials, and test materials if the material does not include actual test
questions or answers:
     Acceptable Materials                Unacceptable Materials                        Notes
                                         Written materials that are         Testing centers may provide
  Supplement book provided by
                                           handwritten, printed, or       calculators and/or deny the use
          the proctor
                                                   electronic                 of personal calculators.
                                            Electronic calculators        Proctor may prohibit the use of
  All models of aviation-oriented
                                        incorporating permanent or         an applicant’s calculator if the
  calculators or small electronic
                                          continuous type memory           proctor is unable to determine
   calculators that perform only
                                           circuits without erasure           the calculator’s erasure
       arithmetic functions
                                                   capability                         capability
     Calculators with simple
                                         Magnetic Cards, magnetic
   programmable memories,
                                         tapes, modules, computer            Printouts of data should be
   which allow the addition to,
                                      chips, or any other device upon      surrendered at the completion
 subtraction from, or retrieval of
                                       which pre-written programs or         of the test if the calculator
 one number from the memory,
                                       information related to the test    incorporates this design feature
  or simple functions, such as
                                        can be stored and retrieved
  square root and percentages




                                                     16
       Acceptable Materials              Unacceptable Materials                          Notes
                                                                            Before, and upon completion of
      Scales, straightedges,
                                                                             the test, while in the presence
 protractors, plotters, navigation
                                                                               of the proctor, actuate the
  computers, blank log sheets,
                                                                               ON/OFF switch or RESET
 holding pattern entry aids, and                Dictionaries
                                                                             button, and perform any other
    electronic or mechanical
                                                                             function that ensures erasure
   calculators that are directly
                                                                             of any data stored in memory
        related to the test
                                                                                         circuits
  Manufacturer’s permanently
  inscribed instructions on the
   front and back of such aids
                                                                                Proctor makes the final
  (e.g., formulas, conversions,           Any booklet or manual
                                                                             determination regarding aids,
  regulations, signals, weather        containing instructions related
                                                                             reference materials, and test
 data, holding pattern diagrams,           to the use of test aids
                                                                                       materials
     frequencies, weight and
 balance formulas, and air traffic
        control procedures)

Test Tips
   •    Carefully read the instructions provided with the test.
   •    Answer each question in accordance with the current regulations and guidance publications.
   •    Read each question carefully before looking at the answer options. You should clearly
        understand the problem before trying to solve it.
   •    After formulating a response, determine which answer option corresponds with your answer.
        The answer you choose should completely solve the problem.
   •    Remember that only one answer is complete and correct. The other possible answers are either
        incomplete or erroneous.
   •    If a certain question is difficult for you, mark it for review and return to it after you have answered
        the less difficult questions. This procedure will enable you to use the available time to maximum
        advantage.
   •    When solving a calculation problem, be sure to read all the associated notes.
   •    For questions involving the use of a graph, you may request a printed copy that you can mark in
        computing your answer. This copy and all other notes and paperwork should be given to the
        testing center upon completion of the test.

Cheating or Other Unauthorized Conduct
The FAA prohibits cheating and unauthorized conduct on written tests, in accordance with 14 CFR part
65, section 65.18. To avoid test compromise, computer testing centers follow procedures established
with the FAA. The FAA has directed testing centers to terminate a test at any time a proctor suspects that
a cheating incident has occurred.
The FAA will investigate any alleged incident of cheating and any airman certificate or rating held may
be suspended or revoked if the agency determines that cheating or unauthorized conduct has occurred.
No person who commits a prohibited act is eligible for any airman or ground instructor certificate or rating
for a period of 1 year after the date of that act (see 14 CFR part 65, section 65.18(b)).




                                                      17
Testing Procedures for Applicants Requesting Special Accommodations
Applicants may request a special accommodation for their airman knowledge test through the PSI test
registration and scheduling process. The PSI special accommodations team will work with the applicant
and the desired testing center to ensure the accommodation(s) are set up on test day. The applicant
should be prepared to provide medical documentation to the PSI special accommodations team for
verification.




                                                 18
                         Chapter 5: Airman Knowledge Test Report (AKTR)

Upon completion of the written test, the applicant receives a printed AKTR documenting the score. The
applicant should retain the original AKTR. Prior to taking the practical test, the applicant presents the
original AKTR to the evaluator. The evaluator will assess any noted areas of deficiency during the oral
portion of the practical test.
An AKTR expires 24 calendar months after the month the applicant completes the written test pursuant
to 14 CFR part 65, section 65.71(a)(3) and (b). If the AKTR expires before completion of the practical
test, the applicant must retake, pass, and present the AKTR in order to start or continue the practical test.
Replacement test reports for knowledge tests taken on or before January 10, 2020, may be obtained
from the FAA. The form to request a replacement test report and additional information may be found at
https://www.faa.gov/licenses_certificates/airmen_certification/test_results_replacement.
For tests taken on or after January 13, 2020, an AKTR may be reprinted from:
https://faa.psiexams.com/faa/login, free of charge.
For additional questions, call the Airmen Certification Branch Toll Free: (866) 878-2498.

FAA Written Test Question Coding
As discussed in chapter 2 of this guide, the system of ACS codes is replacing the system of LSC on an
AKTR. Written tests taken as of the effective date of this ACS will list an ACS code for each missed
question that correlates to a specific Subject element for a given Section and Subject. This change
enables specific and targeted remedial instruction and retesting based on specified learning criteria. Each
ACS code is tied to a unique Subject element in the ACS itself. Refer to Chapter 2 for a description of
the coding used on the knowledge test report.

Missed Knowledge Test Questions
As part of the oral portion of the oral and practical tests, applicants will be subject to retesting on the
subjects identified by the codes shown on the AKTR.




                                                     19
                        Chapter 6: The Oral and Practical (O&P) Test Process

Each applicant for a Mechanic Certificate must successfully pass a written test, an oral test, and a
practical test to comply with the general eligibility requirements to obtain a mechanic certificate or rating
(see14 CFR part 65, section 65.53). The O&P tests are typically conducted by an FAA DME; however,
in some circumstances, an FAA inspector may conduct an oral and/or practical test.
14 CFR part 65, section 65.11, provides that application for a certificate and/or rating must be made on
a form and in a manner prescribed by the Administrator. As part of the application process, the applicant
must contact a DME in order to schedule the O&P tests. A list of DMEs is available at www.faa.gov or
from a local Flight Standards Office.
Prior to the tests, the evaluator conducts a pre-test interview with the applicant. This pre-test interview
provides the evaluator and applicant with information needed for the test, such as the date, time, and
location of the test. It also establishes a testing schedule and allows the evaluator to see any codes
associated with the written test report and identify any deficient areas that should be included on the oral
test. FAA designees may charge a reasonable fee for their services and this fee should be discussed and
agreed upon prior to taking the scheduled test.
The applicant should bring the following documentation to the pre-test interview and the O&P test:
   •   Two identically-prepared FAA Forms 8610-2, Airman Certificate and/or Rating Application, with
       original signatures;
   •   Unless early testing under 14 CFR part 65, section 65.80, written test results indicating a passing
       grade, applicable to the appropriate rating(s) sought ; and
   •   A current government-issued photo identification with a signature from the issuing official, such as
       a passport, U.S. Military ID, driver’s license, etc.
Additionally, the applicant should bring the following eligibility documentation:
                                                       The applicant should bring this
 If testing on the basis of this eligibility:          documentation:
 Graduation from an FAA certificated 14 CFR part       An authenticated document from an AMTS
 147 AMTS;                                             indicating the applicant’s date of graduation and
                                                       curriculum completed, applicable to the certificate
                                                       or rating sought.
 Civil or Military Practical experience as provided    A signature in Block V of FAA Form 8610-2
 by14 CFR part 65, section 65.77;                      authorizing the applicant to test.
 Practical experience through the JSAMTCC              A military certificate of eligibility, applicable to the
 program;                                              certificate or rating sought.
 Satisfactory progress at an FAA certificate 14        A signature in Section II of FAA Form 8610-2
 CFR part 147 AMTS pursuant to14 CFR part              from a school official and FAA inspector
 65, section 65.80;                                    authorizing the applicant to test.


Failure to bring the required documents to the pre-test interview or O&P tests may result in the test being
delayed or terminated.
Note: An evaluator conducts oral or practical tests with no more than one applicant at a time.

Missed Questions From Written Test
The oral portion of the O&P tests will consist of questions to retest any deficient knowledge areas from
the FAA written tests. Applicants should expect to be questioned on the topics associated with the codes
displayed on the AKTR.




                                                      20
Applicant Responsibilities
Every applicant for a mechanic certificate is required to demonstrate their knowledge and skill to a
minimum satisfactory level, regardless of their previous education, experience, or background, in
accordance with the Aviation Mechanic General, Airframe, and Powerplant Airman Certification
Standards as incorporated by reference into 14 CFR part 65, section 65.79.
The applicant is responsible for demonstrating acceptable knowledge of the established standards for
knowledge, skill, and risk management elements in all subjects appropriate to the certificate and rating
sought. The applicant should use the ACS and its references in preparation to take the oral and practical
tests.
An applicant is not permitted to know before testing begins which selections from each subject area are
to be included in their test. Therefore, an applicant should be well prepared in all knowledge, risk
management, and skill elements included in the ACS.
The oral portion of the tests consists of questions specific to the topics associated with the codes on the
AKTR. Applicants must demonstrate acceptable knowledge of the subjects missed on the FAA
knowledge test. If the applicant scores 100% on the written test, the oral test will consist of a minimum
number of randomly selected oral questions. During the oral portion of the test the applicant is NOT
allowed to use any reference material to answer the oral questions asked by the examiner.
The practical (i.e., skill) portion of the test is composed of practical projects and practical questioning
specific to the projects being tested. The applicant may use reference materials to answer the practical
questions asked during the practical projects portion of the test.
Note: Additional information for evaluators regarding the conduct of oral and practical tests is
contained in the current revision of FAA Order 8900.1 or FAA Order 8900.2, as applicable.
All applicants must demonstrate an approval for return to service standard, where applicable, and
demonstrate the ability to locate and apply the required reference materials. In instances where an
approval for return to service standard cannot be achieved, the applicant must explain why the return to
service standard was not met (e.g., when tolerances are outside of a product’s limitations).
The practical portion of the tests are significant because they measure the applicant’s ability to logically
think and objectively apply their knowledge, while demonstrating the physical skills that enable them to
carry out aircraft maintenance in a safe manner. Satisfactory demonstration of each skill tested is
evidence the applicant meets the acceptable degree of competency for the certificate or rating sought.
AMT applicants meeting the experience requirements of 14 CFR part 65 should refer to 14 CFR part 65,
section 65.77; they may be eligible to take the airman knowledge test for the general, airframe, and
powerplant knowledge tests without any additional formal training (i.e., graduation from an ATMS).

Evaluator Responsibilities
The evaluator will ask the applicant to provide the AKTRs prior to generating the test. The evaluator then
generates a complete test with a planning sheet to conduct the oral and practical tests. The evaluator
includes all the questions and projects obtained from the internet-based Mechanic Test Generator (MTG).
The MTG includes oral questions from the knowledge elements of the ACS to retest those topics missed
on the FAA knowledge tests, which will be asked during the oral portion of the test. If the applicant scores
100 percent on the written test, a minimum number of questions are asked during the oral test. The
applicant is not permitted to use any reference material during the oral portion of the test.
The MTG also includes questions on the knowledge and risk management elements of the ACS, specific
to the selected projects; these will be asked in context during the practical demonstration portion of the
test. The applicant is allowed to use reference material for those questions that are given as part of the
practical demonstration portion of the test. For this reason, the examiner will ensure that the oral and
practical portions of the tests are kept separate. The evaluator administering the oral and practical tests
will not combine subjects/elements during testing.



                                                    21
The test provided by the MTG contains questions, answers, projects, and performance standards for all
elements of the oral and practical tests and is specific to the applicant. Although the tests are not provided
to the applicant, it contains certain information in parentheses. This information is additional or clarifying
information for the examiner. It is not expected that the applicant will recite all the information in
parentheses, however, this information is acceptable as an alternative to what is stated in the answer.
The evaluator will personally observe all practical projects performed by the applicant. The practical
portion of the test includes an ongoing evaluation of knowledge and risk management while evaluating
the skill. The evaluator who conducts the practical test is responsible for determining that the applicant
meets acceptable standards of knowledge and skill in the assigned subject areas. Every applicant is
required to demonstrate a minimum satisfactory competency level, regardless of their previous
educational background.
The following terms may be reviewed with the applicant prior to or during element assignment:
   •     Inspect means to examine (with or without inspection enhancing tools/equipment).
   •     Check means to verify proper operation.
   •     Troubleshoot means to analyze and identify malfunctions.
   •     Service means to perform functions that assure continued operation.
   •     Repair means to correct a defective condition and repair of an airframe or powerplant system
         including component replacement and adjustment.
   •     Overhaul means to disassemble, clean, inspect, repair as necessary, and reassemble.
Since an evaluator does not provide applicants with the selections in each subject area to be tested
before the test begins, all applicants should be well prepared in all knowledge, risk management, and
skill elements included in the ACS.
Further information regarding the requirements for conducting a practical test is contained in the current
revision of FAA Order 8900.1 or FAA Order 8900.2, as applicable.

Required Material for the Practical Test
The evaluator shall provide all tools, equipment, and reference materials to support the test. These
materials shall include, but are not limited to, 14 CFR, Airworthiness Directives, Advisory Circulars,
manufacturer’s technical and parts manuals, service information, and any other instructions and/or
reference materials that are necessary to meet the performance standard of the assigned project.
All reference material shall be unmarked and in good condition.
The applicant’s use of other reference material that the evaluator has NOT provided is prohibited. Use of
nonprogrammable calculators is permitted where appropriate. Applicants may only use personal tools
and equipment at the discretion of the evaluator.

Safety
Safety is a prime consideration at all times. The evaluator and applicant should be alert for hazards while
performing any maintenance or troubleshooting projects. Should any project require an action that would
jeopardize safety, the evaluator may ask the applicant to simulate that portion of the project.




                                                     22
The evaluator must ensure the applicant follows all safety recommendations/precautions while performing
the assigned projects including, but not limited to, the following:
   •   Approach to the project; proper information and tools; preparation of the equipment; and
       observation of safety precautions such as wearing safety glasses, hearing protection, and any
       other required personal protective equipment (PPE).
   •   Cleaning, preparing, and protecting parts; skill in handling tools; thoroughness and cleanliness.
   •   Use of current maintenance and overhaul publications and procedures.
   •   Application of appropriate rules, risk management, and safety assessments.
   •   Attitude toward safety, manufacturer’s recommendations, and acceptable industry practices. The
       applicant should be aware that any disregard for safety is not tolerated and will result in a failure.




                                                    23
Change 1 (January 2023)
                               Chapter 7: Oral and Practical Test Results

Passing the Oral and Practical Tests
When an applicant has passed all required tests in the prescribed period of time and meets all other
eligibility requirements, the applicant is eligible to be issued a Temporary Airman Certificate. The
subsequent Certification paragraph provides additional information on temporary certificates.
When an applicant is under 18 and has passed all of the required tests, the applicant should hold their
documentation until they turn 18. When the applicant turns 18, they may take their test results (AKTR
and 8610-2(s)) to their local Flight Standards office or a DME to be issued their temporary certificate.

Failing the Oral and Practical Tests
When an applicant has failed the oral test or the practical test, the applicant must be retested if the
applicant wishes to receive an airman certificate.

Not Tested
When an applicant is not tested in a subject area, applicable to the rating applied for, the evaluator will
annotate appropriately the parts of the test that were not tested. This may occur if the test was unable
to be completed for any reason. The applicant must subsequently be tested in the areas annotated as
“not tested” if the applicant wishes to receive an airman certificate.

Retesting the Oral and Practical
Chapter 1 provides information related to general retesting requirements pursuant to 14 CFR part 65,
section 65.19.
An applicant who applies for retesting of an oral or practical test must provide the evaluator with all
previous FAA Form 8610-2s that annotate failure or “not tested” portions of a test. Additionally, the
applicant must provide the passed AKTR(s). The annotated Form 8610-2s presented as authorization
will be reviewed and returned to the applicant.
If the applicant is retesting the oral portion of the test, they will test the entire Section that was failed
(General, Airframe, or Powerplant). Failed and untested projects will carry forward to the retest.
If the applicant is retesting the practical portion of the test, the applicant is retested on the failed projects
and with any subject areas not tested on the previous test.

Certification
Typically, upon successful completion of the testing process, the applicant is issued a temporary airman
certificate by the DME while the applicant’s application and supplementary documents are reviewed. After
such review and confirmation of eligibility, the FAA will process and issue the airman certificate and/or
ratings (see 14 CFR part 65, section 65.13). The temporary certificate must be signed by the designee
and the applicant in order for it to be valid. The temporary certificate is valid for 120 days from the date
of issuance.
If the temporary certificate expires before the airman’s certificate is issued, the airman should contact
their local Flight Standards Office (or International Field Office if outside the U.S.).If the mechanic
certificate is not received in 120 days, the airman should contact the Airmen Certification Branch via the
following:
        Toll free: 1-866-878-2498
        Website: http://registry.faa.gov
        Email: 9-AMC-AFS760-Airmen@faa.gov
        Certification information line: 405-954-3261

                                                       24
                                       Chapter 8: References

This ACS is based on the following 14 CFR parts, FAA publications, FAA guidance, and learning aid
documents.

 References           Titles
 14 CFR               Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations
 14 CFR part 43       Maintenance, Preventive Maintenance, Rebuilding, and Alteration
 14 CFR part 45       Identification and Registration Marking
 14 CFR part 65       Certification: Airmen Other Than Flight Crewmembers
 14 CFR part 91       General Operating and Flight Rules
 14 CFR part 147      Aviation Maintenance Technician Schools
 AC 20-35             Tiedown Sense
 AC 25.1455-1         Waste Water/Potable Water Drain System Certification Testing
 AC 25-11             Electronic Flight Displays
 AC 43-9              Maintenance Records
 AC 43.13-1           Acceptable Methods, Techniques and Practices - Aircraft Inspection & Repair
 AC 43.13-2           Acceptable Methods, Techniques and Practices - Aircraft Alterations
                      Standardized Procedures for Performing Aircraft Magnetic Compass
 AC 43-215
                        Calibration
 AC 45-2              Identification and Registration Marking
                      Test Aids and Materials that May be Used by Airman Knowledge Testing
 AC 60-11
                        Applicants
                      FAA English Language Standard for an FAA Certificate Issued Under 14 CFR
 AC 60-28
                      Parts 61, 63, 65, and 107
 AC 120-39            Hazards of Waste Water Ice Accumulation Separating from Aircraft in Flight
 AC 150/5210-20       Ground Vehicle Operations to include Taxiing or Towing an Aircraft on Airports
 FAA-H-8083-1         Aircraft Weight and Balance Handbook
 FAA-H-8083-2         Risk Management Handbook
 FAA-H-8083-25        Pilot’s Handbook of Aeronautical Knowledge
                      Aviation Maintenance Technician Handbook–General
 FAA-H-8083-30
 FAA-H-8083-31        Aviation Maintenance Technician Handbook–Airframe (Volumes 1 and 2)
 FAA-H-8083-32        Aviation Maintenance Technician–Powerplant (Volumes 1 and 2)
 POH/AFM              Pilot’s Operating Handbook/FAA-Approved Airplane Flight Manual

Note: Users should reference the current edition of the reference documents listed above. The current
edition of all FAA publications can be found at: www.faa.gov.




                                                  25
                          Chapter 9: Abbreviations and Acronyms


Abbreviations and Acronyms
14 CFR      Title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations
AC          Advisory Circular
AC          Alternating Current
ACARS       Aircraft Communication Addressing and Reporting System
ACS         Airman Certification Standards
AD          Airworthiness Directive
ADF         Automatic Direction Finder
ADS-B       Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast
AELP        Aviation English Language Proficiency
AFS         Flight Standards Service
AIS         Audio Integration System
AKT         Airman Knowledge Test
AKTR        Airman Knowledge Test Report
AMA         Aviation Maintenance - Airframe
AMG         Aviation Maintenance - General
AMP         Aviation Maintenance - Powerplant
AMT         Aviation Maintenance Technician
AMTS        Aviation Maintenance Technician School
ASAP        Aviation Safety Action Program
ASI         Aviation Safety Inspector
ASRP        Aviation Safety Reporting Program
ASRS        Aviation Safety Reporting System
ATC         Air Traffic Control
CFR         Code of Federal Regulations
CG          Center of Gravity
CPC         Corrosion Preventative Compounds
CSD         Constant-Speed Drive
DC          Direct Current
DME         Designated Mechanic Examiner
DME         Distance Measuring Equipment
EGT         Exhaust Gas Temperature
ELT         Emergency Locator Transmitter
EPR         Engine Pressure Ratio
FAA         Federal Aviation Administration
FADEC       Full Authority Digital Engine Controls
FOD         Foreign Object Debris
FOQA        Flight Operational Quality Assurance
FSDO        Flight Standards District Office
GPS         Global Positioning System
GPWS        Ground Proximity Warning Systems
HF          High Frequency
ID          Identification
IDG         Integrated Drive Generator
IFR         Instrument Flight Rules
ILS         Instrument Landing System
INS         Inertial Navigation System
JSAMTCC     Joint Services Aviation Maintenance Technician Certification Council
LOSA        Line Operations Safety Audit
LSC         Learning Statement Codes
MAC         Mean Aerodynamic Chord


                                               26
Abbreviations and Acronyms (continued)
MTG         Mechanic Test Generator
NDT         Nondestructive Testing
NiCad       Nickle-Cadmium (battery)
NVRAM       Nonvolatile Random Access Memory
O&P         Oral and Practical
ODA         Organization Designation Authorization
OK          Oklahoma
P.O.        Post Office
RA          Radio Altimeter
RAM         Random Access Memory
ROM         Read-Only Memory
RNAV        Area Navigation
RPM         Revolutions Per Minute
SATCOM      Satellite Communications
SDS         Safety Data Sheets
SFC         Specific Fuel Consumption
SMS         Safety Management System
STC         Supplemental Type Certificate
SUPS        Suspected Unapproved Parts
TCAS        Traffic Collision Avoidance System
TCDS        Type Certificate Data Sheet
TSO         Technical Standard Order
U.S.        United States of America




                                              27
