The Taxpayer Advocate Service Is



Your Voice
at the IRS

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
is an independent organization within
the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).

We help taxpayers resolve problems
with the IRS, protect taxpayer rights,
and make administrative and
legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems.

We work to ensure that every taxpayer
is treated fairly and that you know
and understand your rights.

We are Your Voice at the IRS.
What does the Taxpayer
Advocate Service do?

TAS helps taxpayers (as well as their
representatives), including individuals,
businesses, and exempt organizations,
resolve tax problems with the IRS that
they haven’t been able to solve on their
own. TAS recommends administrative
changes to the IRS and legislative
changes to Congress to mitigate
problems or reduce taxpayer burden.
This includes large-scale problems that
affect multiple taxpayers. We also make
sure you know and understand your
taxpayer rights under the Taxpayer Bill
of Rights. If you qualify for TAS help, an
advocate will be with you every step
and do everything possible to assist
throughout the process.
What happens when I
contact TAS?

TAS intake advocates receive phone calls
or correspondence and explain our process to
taxpayers. They will assign a case number
and explain the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. They
will advise that a case advocate will contact
you within a certain amount of time based
on the type of issue, request supporting
documentation, provide an expected
completion date, and set up next contact dates.
If intake advocates can identify the issue and
resolve it, they will take action to do so.

If an intake advocate is unable to resolve
the issue and you qualify for TAS’s help, a
TAS case advocate will help you navigate the
process. The case advocate will listen to you,
help you understand what to do, work with
the IRS on your behalf, and stay with you until
your problem is resolved.




    What can you expect from
    your case advocate?

    • His or her name, phone number,
  		 and employee number;
    • Courteous and confidential service;
    • Timely acknowledgment;
    • An impartial and independent
  		 review of your problem;
    • Timeframes for action;
    • Updates on progress;
    • Help with the IRS on your behalf; and
    • Advice on how to prevent future
  		 federal tax problems.
How can TAS help me?


If you are having tax problems and have
not been able to resolve them with the
IRS, TAS may be able to help you.
Generally, we help taxpayers when:
 • Your problem is causing a financial
		 difficulty for you, your family, or your
		business;
 • You or your business are facing an
		 immediate threat of adverse action;
 • You’ve repeatedly tried to contact the
		 IRS, but no one has responded, or the
		 IRS hasn’t responded by the date 		
		promised; or
 • An IRS process, system, or procedure
		 isn’t operating as intended, causing
		 the IRS to fail to timely respond or
		 resolve your issue.


    Use TAS’s qualifier tool to see
    if TAS can help you with your
    tax issue

  www.TaxpayerAdvocate.irs.gov/
  can-tas-help-me-with-my-tax-issue/


TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax
law in a fair and equitable way. TAS also
works to resolve large-scale (systemic)
problems that affect many taxpayers.
You can report systemic issues at
www.IRS.gov/sams. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)
What information will I need
to provide my advocate?

 • Your name, address, and Social
		 Security number, Individual Taxpayer
		 Identification Number, or employer
		 identification number issued by the IRS;
 • Your phone number and best times
		to call;
 • The type of tax return and the tax
		 period(s) involved; and
 • A description of your problem or
		 hardship, how you previously tried
		 to resolve the problem, and the IRS
		 office(s) you have tried to contact.

If you want to authorize another person
to discuss or receive information about
your tax issue, complete and send IRS Form
2848, Power of Attorney and Declaration
of Representative, or Form 8821, Tax
Information Authorization, to your advocate.
You can find these forms at most local IRS
offices, on the IRS website at www.IRS.gov,
or by calling 1-800-829-3676.

TAS is an independent organization within
the IRS. This means the law requires
each TAS office to secure and maintain
communication independent of other IRS
offices. Each local office has a separate
phone, fax, and mailing address from the
IRS. We have the discretion not to disclose
your information to the IRS. However, to
provide you with assistance or relief, TAS
may have to disclose information to an IRS
employee.
How do I reach TAS?

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit
  www.TaxpayerAdvocate.irs.gov. The site can also
  help you with common tax issues and situations,
  such as what to do if you make a mistake on
  your return or if you get a notice from the IRS.

• TAS has offices in every state, the District of
  Columbia, and Puerto Rico. Use the office locator
  at www.TaxpayerAdvocate.irs.gov/contact-us to
  find the contact information to mail or fax to the
  TAS office closest to your residence.

• Fill out Form 911, Request for Taxpayer Advocate
  Service Assistance (and Application for Taxpayer
  Assistance Order). You can download the form
  from www.IRS.gov or request it via phone at
  1-800-829-3676. You can mail or fax this
  completed form and any other correspondence
  to the TAS office in the city/state nearest your
  place of residence. Addresses and phone numbers
  may change, but the latest information is always
  available on the TAS website. If you cannot
  complete the Form 911, you can ask an IRS person
  to fill it out for you, or you can send a letter
  requesting assistance to the office in your state.

• Call TAS’s toll-free phone line at 877-777-4778
  for assistance.

• If you already have a case open, contact your
  case advocate directly or the Local Taxpayer
  Advocate in your state.

• Taxpayers abroad can get help depending on
  their location. Generally, if you reside between
  Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) +6 and -4, contact
  the Puerto Rico office for assistance. If between
  GMT +7 and -11, contact our Hawaii office.
  • Puerto Rico
    City View Plaza, 48 Carr 165, 5th Floor,
    Guaynabo, PR 00968
    Phone: 787-522-8601
    Fax: 855-818-5700
  • Hawaii
    1003 Bishop St., Honolulu, HI 96813
    Phone: 808-466-6375
    Fax: 855-819-5024
Taxpayer Rights


What are my rights as a taxpayer?
In June 2014, the IRS formally adopted the
Taxpayer Bill of Rights, as proposed by
TAS. The rights consist of ten fundamental
rights that taxpayers should be aware
of when dealing
with the IRS.
Congress
codified the
Taxpayer Bill of
Rights in 2015,
and the IRS
includes them
in Publication 1,
Your Rights as a
Taxpayer, to
explain the rights
along with the processes for examination,
appeal, collection, and refunds.

Visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.irs.gov/
taxpayer-rights for more information
about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations
you may encounter with the IRS.

The Right to Be Informed
Taxpayers have the right to know what they
need to do to comply with the tax laws.
They are entitled to clear explanations of the
laws and IRS procedures in all tax forms,
instructions, publications, notices, and
correspondence. They have the right to be
informed of IRS decisions about their tax
accounts and to receive clear explanations
of the outcomes.
The Right to Quality Service
Taxpayers have the right to receive prompt,
courteous, and professional assistance in their
dealings with the IRS, to be spoken to in a way
they can easily understand, to receive clear
and easily understandable communications
from the IRS, and to speak to a supervisor
about inadequate service.

The Right to Pay No More Than
the Correct Amount of Tax
Taxpayers have the right to pay only the
amount of tax legally due, including interest
and penalties, and to have the IRS apply all
tax payments properly.

The Right to Challenge the IRS’s
Position and Be Heard
Taxpayers have the right to raise objections
and provide additional documentation in
response to formal IRS actions or proposed
actions, to expect that the IRS will consider
their timely objections and documentation
promptly and fairly, and to receive a response
if the IRS does not agree with their position.

The Right to Appeal an IRS Decision
in an Independent Forum
Taxpayers are entitled to a fair and impartial
administrative appeal of most IRS decisions,
including many penalties, and have the right
to receive a written response regarding the
Office of Appeals’ decision. Taxpayers generally
have the right to take their cases to court.

The Right to Finality
Taxpayers have the right to know the maximum
amount of time they have to challenge the IRS’s
position as well as the maximum amount of
time the IRS has to audit a particular tax year
or collect a tax debt. Taxpayers have the right
to know when the IRS has finished an audit.
The Right to Privacy
Taxpayers have the right to expect that any
IRS inquiry, examination, or enforcement
action will comply with the law and be no more
intrusive than necessary, and will respect
all due process rights, including search and
seizure protections and will provide, where
applicable, a collection due process hearing.

The Right to Confidentiality
Taxpayers have the right to expect that
any information they provide to the IRS will
not be disclosed unless authorized by the
taxpayer or by law. Taxpayers have the right
to expect appropriate action will be taken
against employees, return preparers, and
others who wrongfully use or disclose
taxpayer return information.

The Right to Retain Representation
Taxpayers have the right to retain an authorized
representative of their choice to represent
them in their dealings with the IRS. Taxpayers
have the right to seek assistance from a Low
Income Taxpayer Clinic if they cannot afford
representation.

The Right to a Fair and Just Tax System
Taxpayers have the right to expect the tax
system to consider facts and circumstances
that might affect their underlying liabilities,
ability to pay, or ability to provide information
timely. Taxpayers have the right to receive
assistance from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service if they are experiencing financial
difficulty or if the IRS has not resolved their
tax issues properly and timely through its
normal channels.
What other ways does TAS
help taxpayers?

Systemic Advocacy
TAS’s Systemic Advocacy function works to
resolve systemic problems – single issues
that affect multiple taxpayers. While Case
Advocacy fulfills the TAS mission of resolving
taxpayer problems, Systemic Advocacy fulfills
it by recommending changes that prevent the
problems from happening again. By working
these issues, TAS helps all taxpayers and
protects their rights to quality service and to
a fair and just tax system.


  Systemic Advocacy:
   • Addresses the issues that impact
  		multiple taxpayers;
   • Works on issues affecting all
  		 taxpayers, including individuals,
  		 businesses, and exempt organizations;
   • Analyzes IRS systems, policies,
  		and procedures;
   • Assesses taxpayer burden and
  		taxpayer rights;
   • Proposes changes to IRS
  		 administrative processes and
  		 procedures or legislative changes; and
    • Monitors the solutions.


If you are aware of an IRS process or
procedure that may be causing problems for
multiple taxpayers, tell us about it. Individuals,
businesses, and tax professionals can
submit systemic issues to TAS via our
Systemic Advocacy Management System
(SAMS) at www.TaxpayerAdvocate.irs.gov/sams.
You can also submit an issue via Form 14411,
Systemic Advocacy Issue Submission Form.
Systemic Advocacy will analyze the problem
and determine next steps to resolve it. Issues
should affect many taxpayers – please don’t
submit a problem affecting one taxpayer,
and do not include any personally identifiable
information.


Low Income Taxpayer Clinics
Low Income Taxpayer Clinics (LITCs) assist
individuals whose income is below a certain
level who need to resolve
tax problems with the
IRS. They also provide
education, outreach, and
 information on taxpayer
rights to individuals
who speak English as a
second language. LITCs
represent taxpayers in disputes before the
IRS and courts and help taxpayers respond
to IRS notices and correct account problems.
Services are offered for free or a small fee.
LITCs are independent from the IRS and TAS.
For more information or to find an LITC near
you, visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.irs.gov/litc
or IRS Publication 4134, Low Income Taxpayer
Clinic List.


Taxpayer Advocacy Panel
Taxpayers have an opportunity to provide direct
feedback to the IRS through the Taxpayer
Advocacy Panel (TAP). TAP is a Federal Advisory
                               Committee
                               comprised of
                               an independent
                               panel of citizen
volunteers who listen to taxpayers, identify
taxpayers’ issues, and make suggestions
for improving IRS service, responsiveness,
and customer satisfaction. Contact TAP at
www.improveirs.org.
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.irs.gov

    www.facebook.com/YourVoiceatIRS

    www.twitter.com/YourVoiceatIRS

    www.youtube.com/TASNTA




      Publication 1546 (Rev. 6-2022)
      Catalog Number 13266S
      Department of the Treasury
      Internal Revenue Service
      www.IRS.gov
