
25.1.1  Overview/Definitions
25.1.1.1  Program Scope and Objectives
25.1.1.1.1  Background
25.1.1.1.2  Authority
25.1.1.1.3  Roles and Responsibilities
25.1.1.1.4  Program Management and Review 
25.1.1.1.5  Program Controls 
25.1.1.1.6  Acronyms and Codes
25.1.1.1.7  Terms
25.1.1.1.8  Related Resources
25.1.1.2  Overview
25.1.1.3  Definition of Fraud
25.1.1.3.1  Requirements of Proof
25.1.1.3.2  Civil vs. Criminal
25.1.1.3.3  Avoidance vs. Evasion
25.1.1.4  Indicators of Fraud vs. Affirmative Acts of Fraud
25.1.1.5  Criminal Statutes
25.1.1.6  Records Retention
Exhibit  25.1.1-1  Criminal Violations
Part 25. Special Topics
Chapter 1. Fraud Handbook
Section 1. Overview/Definitions
25.1.1 Overview/Definitions
Manual Transmittal
April 22, 2021
Purpose
(1) This transmits revised IRM 25.1.1, Fraud Handbook, Overview/Definitions.
Material Changes
(1) IRM 25.1.1.1- Added new subsection, Program Scope and Objectives, to provide internal controls information. Subsections added under Program Scope and Objectives include Background; Authority; Roles and Responsibilities; Program Management and Review; Program Controls; Acronyms; Terms; and Related Resources. Also rearranged existing IRM content to place information involving internal controls under this subsection. The addition of this subsection renumbered existing subsections.
(2) IRM 25.1.1.6 - Records retention requirements were changed.
(3) IRM 25.1.1.6(2)(a) - Clarified guidance regarding Fraud Enforcement Advisors (FEAs) closing cases within the Office of Fraud Enforcement’s inventory System when FEA involvement is concluded.
(4) IRM 25.1.1.6(2)(a) - Added decision points for cases to be closed off the FEA inventory system.
(5) Editorial changes were made throughout the IRM; website links and program names were updated. All references to Fraud Technical Advisor (FTA) were replaced with Fraud Enforcement Advisor (FEA).
Effect on Other Documents
This supersedes IRM 25.1.1, dated January 23, 2014.
Audience
Criminal Investigation (CI), Large Business & International (LB&I), Small Business/Self-Employed (SB/SE), Tax Exempt/Government Entities (TE/GE), Wage and Investment (W&I), and Counsel.
Effective Date
(04-22-2021)
R. Damon Rowe, Director
Office of Fraud Enforcement, SB/SE
25.1.1.1 (04-22-2021)
Program Scope and Objectives
The mission of the OFE is to promote compliance by strengthening the IRS’ response to fraud and by mitigating emerging threats. This includes:
Improving fraud detection and development to address areas of high fraud/risk noncompliance
Cultivating internal and external partnerships to identify new treatment streams to enhance enforcement
Pursuing civil fraud penalties and recommending criminal cases that will lead to prosecutions, where appropriate
Purpose. This IRM section provides direction and guidance for IRS employees servicewide when working potential fraud cases.
Audience. This handbook is a comprehensive guide for IRS employees servicewide in the recognition and development of potential fraud issues; referrals for criminal fraud; duties and responsibilities in joint investigations; civil fraud cases; and other related fraud issues.
Policy Owner. Director, Office of Fraud Enforcement (OFE), SB/SE.
Program Owner. Office of Fraud Enforcement, Policy, SB/SE.
Primary Stakeholders. Employees in IRS compliance employees and the OFE.
25.1.1.1.1 (04-22-2021)
Background
This IRM section provides an overview of fraud, defines the elements of fraud, and provides information for potential fraud examinations and procedures that examiners should understand and apply in the performance of their duties.
25.1.1.1.2 (04-22-2021)
Authority
By law, the IRS has the authority to conduct examinations under Title 26, Internal Revenue Code Subtitle F – Procedure and Administration, Chapter 78, Discovery of Liability and Enforcement of Title, Subchapter A, Examination and Inspection.
25.1.1.1.3 (04-22-2021)
Roles and Responsibilities
The Director, Office of Fraud Enforcement, is the executive responsible for providing fraud policy and guidance for civil compliance employees and ensuring consistent application of polices and procedures in this IRM.
The Fraud Enforcement Advisor (FEA) serves as a resource and liaison to compliance employees in all operating divisions. The FEA is available to assist in fraud investigations and offer advice on matters concerning tax fraud.
Employees who work potential fraud cases are responsible for following the procedures in this IRM. All examiners and their managers working potential fraud cases should familiarize themselves with the information contained in this IRM.
25.1.1.1.4 (04-22-2021)
Program Management and Review
The Office of Fraud Enforcement Policy Staff prepares and issues the following reports to Servicewide customers:
Three-year reports prepared using Fraud Information Tracking System (FITS) data
Status 17 reports using Audit Information Management System (AIMS) or AIMS Centralized Information System (ACIS) data
OFE Policy staff can create reports by area, territory or group. These reports help manage fraud inventory and provide review information for managerial use:
Cases on FITS but not on AIMS or ACIS
Cases on AIMS or ACIS but not on FITS
Cases in fraud development status
Cases in criminal fraud status
Ad-hoc reports are produced as requested by OFE customers.
Operational reviews of the FEA group managers are completed by the OFE program manager twice a year. These reviews measure program consistency, effectiveness in case actions, and compliance with fraud policy and procedures.
FEA managers utilize reports generated from FITS to monitor and track FEA inventory assignments.
25.1.1.1.5 (04-22-2021)
Program Controls
FEA managers verify program and procedural compliance by conducting case consultations, case reviews, performance reviews, and security reviews with all FEAs.
FEAs are required to follow-up on all cases in fraud development status at least every 60 days as required by IRM 25.1.2.2(5)(e), Fraud Development Procedures.
FEAs are required to monitor accepted criminal referrals each quarter to ensure that CI and compliance are holding productive quarterly meetings as required under IRM 25.1.4.4.3, Required Communications.
25.1.1.1.6 (04-22-2021)
Acronyms and Codes
The following table defines acronyms commonly used throughout this IRM:
 Acronym
 Definition
ACS
Automated Collection System
ACIS
AIMS Centralized Information System
ACTC
Additional Child Tax Credit
AIMS
Audit Information Management System
AIS
Automated Insolvency System
AOIC
Automated Offer in Compromise
AOTC
American Opportunity Tax Credit
ASED
Assessment Statute Expiration Date
ATFR
Automated Trust Fund Recovery
AUSA
Assistant U.S. Attorney
BMF
Business Master File
BSA
Bank Secrecy Act
CCFC
Collection Campus Fraud Coordinator
CCP
Centralized Case Processing
CFC
Campus Fraud Coordinator
CFFC
Collection Functional Fraud Coordinator
CI
Criminal Investigation
COIC
Centralized Offer In Compromise
COP
Conditions of Probation
CSCO
Compliance Services Collection Operations
CTC
Child Tax Credit
CTR
Currency Transaction Report
DEL RET
Delinquent Return
ECS
Exam Case Selection
EFC
Examination Fraud Coordinator
EITC
Earned Income Tax Credit
EPR
Examination Planning and Review
ERCS
Examination Returns Control System
FBAR
Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts
FCQ
FinCEN Query
FEA
Fraud Enforcement Advisor
FFC
Functional Fraud Coordinator
FFTF
Fraudulent Failure to File penalty
FinCEN
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
FIRM
Fraudulent Intent Referral Memorandum
GM
group manager
ICS
Integrated Collection System
IDRS
Integrated Data Retrieval System
IMF
Individual Master File
IRC
Internal Revenue Code
IRM
Internal Revenue Manual
IRP
Information Return Processing
IRS
Internal Revenue Service
LB&I
Large Business & International
ODC
Other Dependent Credit
OFE
Office of Fraud Enforcement
OIC
Offer in Compromise
PII
Personally Identifiable Information
PSP
Planning and Special Programs
RA
revenue agent
RAR
Revenue Agent’s Report
RICS
Return Integrity and Compliance Services
RO
revenue officer
SA
Special Agent
SAC
Special Agent in Charge
SAR
Special Agent's Report or Suspicious Activity Report
SB/SE
Small Business/Self Employed
SOL
Statute of Limitation
SSA
Supervisory Special Agent
TBOR
Taxpayer Bill of Rights
TE/GE
Tax Exempt/Government Entities
TM
territory manager
TP
taxpayer
TS
Technical Services
W&I
Wage & Investment
25.1.1.1.7 (04-22-2021)
Terms
Compliance employees must be familiar with the following legal terms to understand the requirements of proof. The following table defines terms commonly used throughout this IRM:
 Term
 Definition
Burden of Proof
The obligation to offer evidence that a court (judge or jury) could reasonably believe in support of a contention. In tax fraud cases, the burden of proof is on the government.
Circumstantial Evidence
Evidence based on inference and not personal observation.
Clear and Convincing Evidence
Evidence showing that the assertion made is highly probable or reasonably certain. This is a greater burden of proof than preponderance of the evidence but less than beyond a reasonable doubt.
Direct Evidence
Evidence in the form of testimony from a witness who actually saw, heard, or touched the subject of questioning. Direct evidence, which is believed, proves existence of fact in issue without inference or presumption.
Evidence
Data presented to a judge or jury in proof of the facts in issue and, which may include the testimony of witnesses, records, documents, or objects. Evidence is distinguished from proof, in that, proof is the result or effect of evidence.
Fraud
Deception by misrepresentation of material facts, or silence when good faith requires expression, which results in material damage to one who relies on it and has the right to rely on it. Simply stated, it is obtaining something of value from someone else through deceit.
Inference
A logical conclusion from given facts.
Preponderance of evidence
Evidence that will incline an impartial mind to one side rather than the other so as to remove the cause from the realm of speculation. It does not relate merely to the quantity of evidence. Simply stated, evidence, which is more convincing than the evidence offered in opposition.
Presumption (of law)
A rule of law that a judge or jury will draw a particular inference from a particular fact, or from particular evidence, unless and until the truth of such inference is disproved.
Reasonable doubt
A doubt that would cause a prudent person to hesitate before acting in matters of importance to themselves. Such a doubt will leave a juror's mind uncertain after examination of the evidence.
Willful Intent to Defraud
An intentional wrongdoing with the specific purpose of evading a tax believed by the taxpayer to be owing.
25.1.1.1.8 (04-22-2021)
Related Resources
The Fraud Development Knowledge Base is located at the following website:https://portal.ds.irsnet.gov/sites/vl019/pages/default.aspx
Procedural guidance on potential fraud development cases can be found throughout IRM 25.1.
25.1.1.2 (04-22-2021)
Overview
The Office of Fraud Enforcement Advisor Program is a servicewide program administered by four groups. The groups are comprised of revenue agents and revenue officers who are located strategically throughout the country to assist with the development of fraud. A list of groups, FEA group managers, and the FEAs can be found on the Fraud Development Knowledge Base website at:https://portal.ds.irsnet.gov/sites/vl019/lists/fraudawareness/fraudenforcementsadvisorscontactinformation.aspx
The FEA plays a vital role in the development of a potential fraud case. The FEA will be consulted in all cases involving potential criminal fraud, as well as those cases that have potential for a civil fraud penalty.
Upon initial recognition of indicators of fraud, the employee will discuss the case at the earliest possible opportunity with his/her manager. If the compliance group manager concurs, the FEA will be contacted immediately; and both the compliance group manager and FEA will provide guidance to the compliance employee on how to proceed. To request a consultation with the FEA, the compliance employee will submit a request through the Specialist Referral System (SRS). The SRS is located at the following website:https://srs.web.irs.gov/default.aspx
When affirmative acts (firm indications) of fraud/willfulness exist and criminal criteria are met, the compliance employee will refer the case through the Fraud Enforcement Advisor (FEA) to Criminal Investigation (CI) via Form 2797, Referral Report of Potential Criminal Fraud Cases.
The discovery and development of fraud are the result of effective investigative techniques. Techniques employed by compliance employees are designed to disclose not only errors in accounting and application of tax law, but also irregularities that indicate the possibility of fraud.
Generally, for fraud to be considered, the compliance employee must show:
An additional tax due and owing as the result of a deliberate intent to evade tax; and
The willful and material submission of false statements or false documents in connection with an application and/or return.
A comment regarding consideration of fraud must be documented by all SB/SE compliance examination field operations employees on cases involving adjustments to taxable income and/or credits resulting in an underpayment of tax due.
25.1.1.3 (01-23-2014)
Definition of Fraud
Fraud is deception by misrepresentation of material facts, or silence when good faith requires expression, which results in material damage to one who relies on it and has the right to rely on it. Simply stated, it is obtaining something of value from someone else through deceit.
Tax fraud is often defined as an intentional wrongdoing, on the part of a taxpayer, with the specific purpose of evading a tax known or believed to be owing. Tax fraud requires both:
a tax due and owing; and
fraudulent intent.
25.1.1.3.1 (04-22-2021)
Requirements of Proof
Understanding the requirements of proof is essential in establishing fraud. In all criminal and civil tax fraud cases, the burden of proof is on the government.
The major difference between civil and criminal fraud is the degree of proof required.
In criminal cases, the government must present sufficient evidence to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
In civil fraud cases, the government must prove fraud by clear and convincing evidence.
25.1.1.3.2 (04-22-2021)
Civil vs. Criminal
Civil fraud results in a remedial action taken by the government, such as assessing the correct tax and imposing civil penalties as an addition to tax, as well as retrieving transferred assets. Civil penalties are assessed and collected administratively as part of the unpaid balance of assessment.
Criminal fraud results in a punitive action with penalties consisting of fines and/or imprisonment. Criminal penalties:
Are enforced only by prosecution;
Are provided to punish the taxpayer for wrongdoings; and
Serve as a deterrent to other taxpayers.
A tax fraud offense may result in both civil and criminal penalties. Restitution may be ordered in criminal tax cases pursuant to a plea agreement or a conviction under Title 18 U.S.C. and may be required as a condition of probation.
25.1.1.3.3 (01-23-2014)
Avoidance vs. Evasion
Avoidance of tax is not a criminal offense. Taxpayers have the right to reduce, avoid, or minimize their taxes by legitimate means. One who avoids tax does not conceal or misrepresent, but shapes and preplans events to reduce or eliminate tax liability within the parameters of the law.
Evasion involves some affirmative act to evade or defeat a tax, or payment of tax. Examples of affirmative acts are deceit, subterfuge, camouflage, concealment, attempts to color or obscure events, or make things seem other than they are.
Common evasion schemes include:
Intentional understatement or omission of income;
Claiming fictitious or improper deductions;
False allocation of income;
Improper claims, credits, or exemptions; and/or
Concealment of assets.
25.1.1.4 (04-22-2021)
Indicators of Fraud vs. Affirmative Acts of Fraud
Indicators of Fraud:
Taxpayers who knowingly understate their tax liability often leave evidence in the form of identifying earmarks (or indicators).
Indicators of fraud serve as a sign or symptom, or signify that actions may have been taken for the purpose of deceit, concealment or to make things seem other than what they are. Indications, in and of themselves, do not establish that a particular action was taken.
Examples include substantial unexplained increases in net worth, substantial excess of personal expenditures over available resources, bank deposits from unexplained sources substantially exceeding reported income, and documents that appear to be altered or false.
Affirmative Acts (Firm Indications) of Fraud:
Affirmative acts of fraud are those actions that establish that a particular action was deliberately done for the purpose of deceit, subterfuge, camouflage, concealment, some attempt to color or obscure events, or make things seem other than what they are.
Fraud cannot be established without affirmative acts of fraud.
Examples include deliberate or intentional omission of specific items where similar items are included; concealment of bank accounts or other assets; willful failure to deposit receipts to business accounts; and covering up sources of receipts.
25.1.1.5 (04-22-2021)
Criminal Statutes
Willfulness is a common element of tax crimes. Willfulness is defined as a voluntary, intentional violation of a known legal duty. A good faith misunderstanding of the law or good faith belief that one is not violating the law negates willfulness.
Exhibit 25.1.1-1 is a listing of the elements necessary for the most common statutes under which criminal prosecution may be recommended by CI.
25.1.1.6 (04-22-2021)
Records Retention
This subsection applies to the records retention requirements for all Office of Fraud Enforcement (OFE) personnel (RA FEAs, RO FEAs, FEA group managers and program analysts, etc.).
FEA case files and reports (see Document 12990, Records and Information Management Records Control Schedules, Schedule 28, Item 6(a), Office of Fraud Enforcement Case Files):
There are numerous records created, obtained and maintained by FEAs during the course of case development. FEAs should maintain these records while they are providing assistance on a case. Prior to the compliance employee's case closing, the FEA must provide all original records to the compliance employee to be included in the original case file. Once the FEA’s involvement is concluded, the case should be closed on the FEA inventory system.
 Cases will be closed off the FEA inventory system at the following decision points.
RA FEAs:
When the FEA signs the Form 11661 to recommend that the case be placed back in status 12. The FEA will mark FEA Involvement Concluded on Form 11661 or Form 13549 and the case will be closed on the FEA inventory system.
When the FEA approves the civil fraud penalty/fraudulent failure to file penalty/Ten-Year Ban, then the FEA will mark FEA Involvement Concluded on Form 11661 or Form 13549 and the case will be closed on the FEA inventory system.
When a case has been fully adjudicated in the criminal system and all applicable civil penalties have been approved by the FEA.
 RO FEAs:
When the FEA makes the recommendation to remove the case from fraud development the case will be closed on the FEA inventory system.
When the case has been fully adjudicated in the criminal system.
All cases closed on the FEA inventory system will remain archived for a period of 10 years beginning the date of closure. If a need arises to re-open a case for further development or further FEA involvement, (such as a case being returned to the group for civil settlement), then the FEA group manager will re-open the case and a new retention period will begin.
Other records maintained are required to be destroyed at the later of 1) within 180 days of receipt, or 2) when no longer needed for current operations. Such records include those maintained by the FEA group manager and program analysts; and copies of reports and analyses of various program data.
The FEA group manager must ensure effective processes for monitoring and maintaining archived records. To meet the retention requirements, the FEA group manager may need to access ERCS, Examination Returns Control System, or ICS, Integrated Collection System, to determine the conclusion date of the case. Maintaining these files may be a delegated task to the group secretary.
When the retention period has been met for Form 4502, Exam Technical Time Report; Form 3081, Employee Time Report; travel documentation; FEA case files and reports; etc.; the FEA group manager must complete the Form 11671, Certificate of Records Disposal. Form 11671 is completed after the files are eligible for destruction and should be sent by the FEA group manager to the Area Record Manager for Retention for approval. Once approval is received, the FEA group manager may destroy the records using the normal shred process within the FEA group manager's office. Additional information may be found on the Disclosure and Privacy Knowledge Base, located at: https://portal.ds.irsnet.gov/sites/vl003/pages/default.aspx.
Exhibit 25.1.1-1 
Criminal Violations
 Criminal Statutes
 Elements Necessary For Prosecution
Title 26 USC Section 7201 (Evasion) Felony
Willfulness
Attempt to evade or defeat (usually involves concealment or deception) tax or payment thereof
Tax deficiency
Title 26 USC Section 7202 (Trust Fund Violation—Willful Failure to Collect or Pay Over Tax) Felony
Willfulness
Requirement to collect, truthfully account for, and pay over employment taxes
Either failure to collect any tax or failure to truthfully account for and pay over any tax or both
Title 26 USC Section 7203 (Failure to File or Failure to Pay) Misdemeanor
Willfulness
Requirement to file a return, pay an estimated tax or tax, maintain records, or supply information
Failure to file a return, pay an estimated tax or tax, maintain records, or supply information
Title 26 USC Section 6050I in Conjunction with 26 USC Sections 7203 and 7206 (Trade or Business Required to File a Form 8300 for Receiving More Than $10,000 Cash) Felony
Willfulness
Subject to reporting requirement relating to cash of more than $10,000 received in trade or business
Evasion of reporting requirement by:
Causing a trade or business to fail to file report, or
Causing a trade or business to file false report, or
Structuring transactions to avoid report
Title 26 USC Section 7204 (Employee Wage Statements) Misdemeanor
Duty to deduct and withhold employment tax or income tax (26 USC 3102(a), 3402(a)
Duty to timely furnish to the employee a written statement showing specified information concerning the deductions (26 USC 6051)
Furnishing a false or fraudulent statement to an employee, or the failure to furnish a statement to an employee at the required time and in the required manner
Willfulness
Title 26 USC Section 7205 (False W–4) Misdemeanor
Duty to supply information to employer regarding income tax withholding (26 USC 3402(f)(2))
Furnishing false or fraudulent information or failure to supply information, which would require an increase in tax to be withheld
Willfulness
Title 26 USC Section 7206(1) (False return) Felony
Making and subscribing a return or other document under penalties of perjury
The return, statement or other document, which was false as to a material matter
Belief that it is not true and correct as to every material matter
Willfulness
Title 26 USC Section 7206(2) (Assisting in Preparation of False Return) Felony
Aiding or assisting in, procuring, counseling, or advising the preparation or presentation of a document in connection with matters arising under the internal revenue laws
Document was false as to a material matter
Willfulness
Title 26 USC Section 7206(4) (Removal or Concealment with Intent to Defraud) Felony
Tax imposed on property
Property on which tax is imposed or will be imposed or levy is authorized
Removal or concealment
Intent to evade or defeat assessment or collection of tax
Title 26 USC Section 7206(5) (Compromises & Closing Agreements) Felony
Willful concealment of property or
Willful withholding, falsifying and destroying records
Receives, withholds, destroys, mutilates, or falsifies any book, document, or record, or makes any false statement.
Title 26 USC Section 7207 (Submission of False Documents) Misdemeanor
Wilfulness
Delivery or disclosure to any officer or employee of the Internal Revenue Service of any list, return, account, statement, or other document Return, statement, or other document is false or fraudulent as to a material matte
Knowledge of material falsity
Title 26 USC Section 7212(a) "Omnibus Clause" Felony
Corrupt effort, endeavor, or attempt
To impede, obstruct or interfere with
Due administration of Title 26
Title 26 USC Section 7212(a) (Corrupt or Forcible Interference) Felony or Misdemeanor
Use of force or threat
To intimidate, impede or obstruct
An officer or employee of the U.S. acting in official capacity under Title 26
Title 26 USC Section 7212(b) (Forcible Rescue of Seized Property) Felony
Forcible rescue or attempt to forcibly rescue
Seized property
Knowledge of seizure
Title 26 USC Section 7215 (Collection & Paying Tax) Misdemeanor
Taxpayer was a person required to collect, account for, and pay over income tax withholding on wages and FICA taxes
Taxpayer was notified of the failure to collect, account for, and pay over
Taxpayer failed to collect, account for, and pay over the taxes, while not entertaining a reasonable doubt as to whether the law required the taxpayer to do so, and the failure was not due to circumstances beyond the taxpayer’s control
Title 26 USC Section 7232 (Failure to Register) Felony
Fails to register in connection with taxable purchase -diesel fuel and special motor fuels, or
Falsely represents that he is registered, or
Willfully makes false statement in an application for registration.
Title 18 USC Section 2 (Principal/Aiding and Abetting) Felony or Misdemeanor
Whoever commits an offense against the United States or aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces or procures its commission, is punishable as a principal
Whoever willfully causes an act to be done which if directly performed by him or another would be an offense against the United States, is punishable as a principal.
Title 18 USC Section 152(1) (Concealment of Property) Felony
Bankruptcy proceeding was in existence;
Individual fraudulently concealed the property from the custodian; and
Property belonged to the bankruptcy estate.
Title 18 USC Section 152(2) (False Oath or Account) Felony
Existence of a bankruptcy proceeding;
Statement under oath;
Statement must be false; and
Statement was made knowingly and fraudulently makes a false oath or account in or in relation to any case under title 11.
Title 18 USC Section 152(3) (False Declarations) Felony 
Existence of a bankruptcy proceeding;
Individual made a false declaration, certificate, verification, or other statement in relation to the bankruptcy proceeding;
Statement was knowingly and fraudulently makes a false declaration, certificate, verification, or statement under penalty of perjury as permitted under Section 1746 of Title 28, in or in relation to any case under title 11.
Title 18 USC Section 152(4) (False Claims) Felony 
Bankruptcy proceedings have commenced; Individual presented or caused to be presented a proof of claim in the bankruptcy;
Proof of claim was false as to a material matter; and
Individual knew the proof of claim was false and acted knowingly and fraudulently presents any false claim for proof against the estate of a debtor, or uses any such claim in any case under title 11, in a personal capacity or as or through an agent, proxy, or attorney;
Title 18 USC Section 152(5) (Fraudulent Receipt of Property) Felony
Individual receives a material amount of property from a debtor
Such transfer occurred after the filing of a case under Title 11; and
Acts were done with the intent to defeat the provisions of Title 11.
Title 18 USC Section 152(6) (Extortion and Bribery) Felony
Individual gives, offers, receives, or attempts to obtain money or property, remuneration, compensation, reward, advantage, or promise for acting or forbearing to act in any case under Title 11; and
Action was made knowingly and fraudulently.
Title 18 USC Section 152(7) Fraudulent Transfer or Concealment) Felony
Individual fraudulently transferred or concealed the defendant's property or the property of another; an
Such act of transfer or concealment was done with the intent to defeat the provisions of Title 11, or in contemplation of a case under Title 11.
Title 18 USC Section 152(8) (Destruction or Alteration of Recorded Information) Felony
Bankruptcy proceeding existed
Individual concealed, destroyed, or mutilated the documents;
Such documents related to the property or financial affairs of the debtor; and
Individual acted knowingly and fraudulently.
Title 18 USC Section 152(9) (Withholding of Recorded Information) Felony
Bankruptcy proceeding existed;
Individual withheld from the trustee entitled to its possession; books, documents, records, or papers;
Such documents related to the property or financial affairs of the debtor; an
Individual withheld the documents knowingly and fraudulently.
Title 18 USC Section 157 (Bankruptcy Fraud) Felony 
Defendant devised or intended to devise a scheme or artifice to defraud; and
For the purpose of executing or concealing such scheme or artifice or attempting to do so;
Files a petition under Title 11; or
Files a document in a proceeding under Title 11; or
Makes a false or fraudulent representation, claim, or promise concerning or in relation to a proceeding under Title 11
Title 18 USC Section 286 (Conspiracy to Defraud the government with Respect to Claims) Felony
An agreement, combination, or conspiracy to defraud the United States
By obtaining or aiding to obtain the payment of any false, fictitious or fraudulent claim.
Title 18 USC Section 287 (False Fictitious or Fraudulent Claims) Felony
Knowingly makes or presents (statute does not require that person providing false information to return discounter* who filed return actually file return to be guilty under 287)
False, fictitious or fraudulent claim
Knowing that claim filed is false, fictitious or fraudulent.
Note:
* Files return for a percentage of the refund.
Title 18 USC Section 371 (Conspiracy) Felony
The general conspiracy statute encompasses two distinct types of conspiracies;
Conspiracy to commit any federal offense
Conspiracy to defraud the United States or any agency thereof, which includes the Service
Essential elements of a Section 371 offense are:
Agreement by two or more parties
To commit an offense against the United States; or, to defraud the United States or one of its agencies
Overt act by one or more of the parties in furtherance of the agreement
Requisite intent to defraud or to commit the substantive offense
Title 18 USC Section 1001 (False Statements) Felony
Either:
Falsifying, concealing or covering up any material fact by any trick, scheme, or device; or
Making false, fictitious or fraudulent statements or representations; or
Making or using any false writing or document.
Knowingly and willfully
In a matter within the jurisdiction of a department or agency of the United States
False matter was of a material nature.
Title 18 USC 1956 (Laundering of Monetary Instruments) Felony
Whoever, knowing that property involved in a financial transaction represents proceeds of a specified unlawful activity (SUA).
Conducts such a financial transaction, which in fact involves proceeds of a SUA:
A.i. with the intent to promote the carrying on of SUA; or
ii. with the intent to engage in conduct constituting a violation of section 7201 or 7206 of the IRC; or
B. knowing the transaction is designed in whole or in part:
i. to conceal or disguise the nature, location, source, ownership, or control of the proceeds of SUA; or
ii. to avoid a transaction reporting requirement under State or Federal law.
More Internal Revenue Manual
 