Join PromCon EU 2026   , the Prometheus users conference, on October 7–8, 2026 in Munich.
PromCon EU 2026   — Oct 7–8, Munich.

Prometheus

Docs Download Community Support & Training Blog

Ctrl + K

Show nav Introduction
Overview
First steps
Comparison to alternatives
FAQ
Roadmap
Design documents
Media
Glossary
Long-term support

Concepts
Data model
Metric types
Jobs and instances

Prometheus Server

Getting started
Installation
Configuration
Configuration
Recording rules
Alerting rules
Template examples
Template reference
HTTP configuration for promtool
Unit testing for rules
HTTPS and authentication

Agent Mode
Querying
Basics
Operators
Functions
Examples
HTTP API
Remote Read API

Storage
Federation
HTTP SD
Management API
Command Line
prometheus
promtool

Migration
API stability
Feature flags

Visualization
Expression browser
Grafana
Perses
Console templates

Instrumenting
Client libraries
Writing client libraries
Pushing metrics
Exporters and integrations
Writing exporters
Exposition formats
UTF-8 escaping schemes
Content negotiation

Operating
Security
Integrations

Alertmanager

Alerting overview
Alertmanager
Configuration
High Availability
Notification Integrations
Alerts API
Notification template reference
Notification template examples
Management API
HTTPS and authentication

Best practices
Metric and label naming
Consoles and dashboards
Instrumentation
Histograms and summaries
Alerting
Recording rules
When to use the Pushgateway
Remote write tuning
The Zen of Prometheus

Guides
Basic auth
Monitoring Docker container metrics using cAdvisor
Contributing
Use file-based service discovery to discover scrape targets
Instrumenting a Go application
Understanding and using the multi-target exporter pattern
Monitoring Linux host metrics with the Node Exporter
OpenTelemetry
UTF-8 in Prometheus
Docker Swarm
OpenMetrics 2.0 Migration Guide for Client Libraries
Query log
TLS encryption

Tutorials
Getting started with Prometheus
Understanding metric types
Instrumenting HTTP server written in Go
Visualizing metrics using Grafana
Alerting based on metrics

Specifications
Native Histograms
OpenMetrics
1.0
2.0

Remote Write
1.0
2.0

Overview
What is Prometheus?

Prometheus   is an open-source systems
monitoring and alerting toolkit originally built at
SoundCloud   . Since its inception in 2012, many
companies and organizations have adopted Prometheus, and the project has a very
active developer and user community . It is now a standalone open source project
and maintained independently of any company. To emphasize this, and to clarify
the project's governance structure, Prometheus joined the
Cloud Native Computing Foundation   in 2016
as the second hosted project, after Kubernetes   .

Prometheus collects and stores its metrics as time series data, i.e. metrics information is stored with the timestamp at which it was recorded, alongside optional key-value pairs called labels.

For more elaborate overviews of Prometheus, see the resources linked from the
media section.

Features

Prometheus's main features are:

- a multi-dimensional data model with time series data identified by metric name and key/value pairs

- PromQL, a flexible query language
to leverage this dimensionality

- no reliance on distributed storage; single server nodes are autonomous

- time series collection happens via a pull model over HTTP

- pushing time series is supported via an intermediary gateway

- targets are discovered via service discovery or static configuration

- multiple modes of graphing and dashboarding support

What are metrics?

Metrics are numerical measurements in layperson terms. The term time series refers to the recording of changes over time. What users want to measure differs from application to application. For a web server, it could be request times; for a database, it could be the number of active connections or active queries, and so on.

Metrics play an important role in understanding why your application is working in a certain way. Let's assume you are running a web application and discover that it is slow. To learn what is happening with your application, you will need some information. For example, when the number of requests is high, the application may become slow. If you have the request count metric, you can determine the cause and increase the number of servers to handle the load.

Components

The Prometheus ecosystem consists of multiple components, many of which are
optional:

- the main Prometheus server   which scrapes and stores time series data

- client libraries for instrumenting application code

- a push gateway   for supporting short-lived jobs

- special-purpose exporters for services like HAProxy, StatsD, Graphite, etc.

- an alertmanager   to handle alerts

- various support tools

Most Prometheus components are written in Go   , making
them easy to build and deploy as static binaries.

Architecture

This diagram illustrates the architecture of Prometheus and some of
its ecosystem components:

Prometheus scrapes metrics from instrumented jobs, either directly or via an
intermediary push gateway for short-lived jobs. It stores all scraped samples
locally and runs rules over this data to either aggregate and record new time
series from existing data or generate alerts. Grafana   or
other API consumers can be used to visualize the collected data.

When does it fit?

Prometheus works well for recording any purely numeric time series. It fits
both machine-centric monitoring as well as monitoring of highly dynamic
service-oriented architectures. In a world of microservices, its support for
multi-dimensional data collection and querying is a particular strength.

Prometheus is designed for reliability, to be the system you go to
during an outage to allow you to quickly diagnose problems. Each Prometheus
server is standalone, not depending on network storage or other remote services.
You can rely on it when other parts of your infrastructure are broken, and
you do not need to set up extensive infrastructure to use it.

When does it not fit?

Prometheus values reliability. You can always view what statistics are
available about your system, even under failure conditions. If you need 100%
accuracy, such as for per-request billing, Prometheus is not a good choice, as
the collected data will likely not be detailed and complete enough. In such a
case, you would be best off using some other system to collect and analyze the
data for billing, and Prometheus for the rest of your monitoring.

Edit
Edit this page
Issue
Report an issue

Next
First steps

On this page

© Prometheus Authors 2014- 2026 | All components are available under the Apache 2 License on GitHub .
© 2026 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved. The Linux Foundation has registered trademarks and uses trademarks. For a list of trademarks of The Linux Foundation, please see our Trademark Usage page.