485
Federal Trade Commission § 318.2
equal or greater protection from the
prohibited practices set forth in § 317.3.
§ 317.5 Severability.
The provisions of this Rule are sepa-
rate and severable from one another. If
any provision is stayed or determined
to be invalid, it is the Commission’s in-
tention that the remaining provisions
shall continue in effect.
PART 318—HEALTH BREACH
NOTIFICATION RULE
Sec.
318.1 Purpose and scope.
318.2 Definitions.
318.3 Breach notification requirement.
318.4 Timeliness of notification.
318.5 Methods of notice.
318.6 Content of notice.
318.7 Enforcement.
318.8 Applicability date.
318.9 Sunset.
AUTHORITY: 42 U.S.C. 17937 and 17953.
SOURCE: 74 FR 42980, Aug. 25, 2009, as
amended at 89 FR 47054, May 30, 2024, unless
otherwise noted.
§ 318.1 Purpose and scope.
(a) This part, which shall be called
the ‘‘Health Breach Notification Rule,’’
implements section 13407 of the Amer-
ican Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009, 42 U.S.C. 17937. This part applies
to foreign and domestic vendors of per-
sonal health records, PHR related enti-
ties, and third party service providers,
irrespective of any jurisdictional tests
in the Federal Trade Commission
(FTC) Act, that maintain information
of U.S. citizens or residents. This part
does not apply to HIPAA-covered enti-
ties, or to any other entity to the ex-
tent that it engages in activities as a
business associate of a HIPAA-covered
entity.
(b) This part preempts State law as
set forth in section 13421 of the Amer-
ican Recovery and Reinvestment Act of
2009, 42 U.S.C 17951.
§ 318.2 Definitions.
Breach of security means, with respect
to unsecured PHR identifiable health
information of an individual in a per-
sonal health record, acquisition of such
information without the authorization
of the individual. Unauthorized acqui-
sition will be presumed to include un-
authorized access to unsecured PHR
identifiable health information unless
the vendor of personal health records,
PHR related entity, or third party
service provider that experienced the
breach has reliable evidence showing
that there has not been, or could not
reasonably have been, unauthorized ac-
quisition of such information. A breach
of security includes an unauthorized
acquisition of unsecured PHR identifi-
able health information in a personal
health record that occurs as a result of
a data breach or an unauthorized dis-
closure.
Business associate means a business
associate under the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act,
Public Law 104–191, 110 Stat. 1936, as de-
fined in 45 CFR 160.103.
Clear and conspicuous means that a
notice is reasonably understandable
and designed to call attention to the
nature and significance of the informa-
tion in the notice.
(1) Reasonably understandable. You
make your notice reasonably under-
standable if you:
(i) Present the information in the no-
tice in clear, concise sentences, para-
graphs, and sections;
(ii) Use short explanatory sentences
or bullet lists whenever possible;
(iii) Use definite, concrete, everyday
words and active voice whenever pos-
sible;
(iv) Avoid multiple negatives;
(v) Avoid legal and highly technical
business terminology whenever pos-
sible; and
(vi) Avoid explanations that are im-
precise and readily subject to different
interpretations.
(2) Designed to call attention. You de-
sign your notice to call attention to
the nature and significance of the in-
formation in it if you:
(i) Use a plain-language heading to
call attention to the notice;
(ii) Use a typeface and type size that
are easy to read;
(iii) Provide wide margins and ample
line spacing;
(iv) Use boldface or italics for key
words; and
(v) In a form that combines your no-
tice with other information, use dis-
tinctive type size, style, and graphic
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00495 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
486
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 318.2
devices, such as shading or sidebars,
when you combine your notice with
other information. The notice should
stand out from any accompanying text
or other visual elements so that it is
easily noticed, read, and understood.
(3) Notices on websites or within-appli-
cation messaging. If you provide a notice
on a web page or using within-applica-
tion messaging, you design your notice
to call attention to the nature and sig-
nificance of the information in it if you
use text or visual cues to encourage
scrolling down the page if necessary to
view the entire notice and ensure that
other elements on the website or soft-
ware application (such as text, graph-
ics, hyperlinks, or sound) do not dis-
tract attention from the notice, and
you either:
(i) Place the notice on a screen that
consumers frequently access, such as a
page on which transactions are con-
ducted; or
(ii) Place a link on a screen that con-
sumers frequently access, such as a
page on which transactions are con-
ducted, that connects directly to the
notice and is labeled appropriately to
convey the importance, nature and rel-
evance of the notice.
Covered health care provider means a
provider of services (as defined in 42
U.S.C. 1395x(u)), a provider of medical
or other health services (as defined in
42 U.S.C. 1395x(s)), or any other entity
furnishing health care services or sup-
plies.
Electronic mail means email in com-
bination with one or more of the fol-
lowing: text message, within-applica-
tion messaging, or electronic banner.
Health care services or supplies means
any online service such as a website,
mobile application, or internet-con-
nected device that provides mecha-
nisms to track diseases, health condi-
tions, diagnoses or diagnostic testing,
treatment, medications, vital signs,
symptoms, bodily functions, fitness,
fertility, sexual health, sleep, mental
health, genetic information, diet, or
that provides other health-related serv-
ices or tools.
HIPAA-covered entity means a covered
entity under the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA), Public Law 104–191, 110 Stat.
1936, as defined in 45 CFR 160.103.
Personal health record (PHR) means an
electronic record of PHR identifiable
health information on an individual
that has the technical capacity to draw
information from multiple sources and
that is managed, shared, and controlled
by or primarily for the individual.
PHR identifiable health information
means information that:
(1) Relates to the past, present, or fu-
ture physical or mental health or con-
dition of an individual, the provision of
health care to an individual, or the
past, present, or future payment for
the provision of health care to an indi-
vidual; and
(i) Identifies the individual; or
(ii) With respect to which there is a
reasonable basis to believe that the in-
formation can be used to identify the
individual; and
(2) Is created or received by a:
(i) Covered health care provider;
(ii) Health plan (as defined in 42
U.S.C. 1320d(5));
(iii) Employer; or
(iv) Health care clearinghouse (as de-
fined in 42 U.S.C. 1320d(2)); and
(3) With respect to an individual, in-
cludes information that is provided by
or on behalf of the individual.
PHR related entity means an entity,
other than a HIPAA-covered entity or
an entity to the extent that it engages
in activities as a business associate of
a HIPAA-covered entity, that:
(1) Offers products or services
through the website, including any on-
line service, of a vendor of personal
health records;
(2) Offers products or services
through the websites, including any
online service, of HIPAA-covered enti-
ties that offer individuals personal
health records; or
(3) Accesses unsecured PHR identifi-
able health information in a personal
health record or sends unsecured PHR
identifiable health information to a
personal health record.
State means any of the several
States, the District of Columbia, Puer-
to Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
American Samoa, and the Northern
Mariana Islands.
Third party service provider means an
entity that:
(1) Provides services to a vendor of
personal health records in connection
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00496 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
487
Federal Trade Commission § 318.4
with the offering or maintenance of a
personal health record or to a PHR re-
lated entity in connection with a prod-
uct or service offered by that entity;
and
(2) Accesses, maintains, retains,
modifies, records, stores, destroys, or
otherwise holds, uses, or discloses un-
secured PHR identifiable health infor-
mation as a result of such services.
Unsecured means PHR identifiable in-
formation that is not protected
through the use of a technology or
methodology specified by the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services
in the guidance issued under section
13402(h)(2) of the American Reinvest-
ment and Recovery Act of 2009, 42
U.S.C. 17932(h)(2).
Vendor of personal health records
means an entity, other than a HIPAA-
covered entity or an entity to the ex-
tent that it engages in activities as a
business associate of a HIPAA-covered
entity, that offers or maintains a per-
sonal health record.
§ 318.3 Breach notification require-
ment.
(a) In general. In accordance with
§§ 318.4 (regarding timeliness of notifi-
cation), 318.5 (regarding methods of no-
tice), and 318.6 (regarding content of
notice), each vendor of personal health
records, following the discovery of a
breach of security of unsecured PHR
identifiable health information that is
in a personal health record maintained
or offered by such vendor, and each
PHR related entity, following the dis-
covery of a breach of security of such
information that is obtained through a
product or service provided by such en-
tity, shall:
(1) Notify each individual who is a
citizen or resident of the United States
whose unsecured PHR identifiable
health information was acquired by an
unauthorized person as a result of such
breach of security;
(2) Notify the Federal Trade Commis-
sion; and
(3) Notify prominent media outlets
serving a State or jurisdiction, fol-
lowing the discovery of a breach of se-
curity, if the unsecured PHR identifi-
able health information of 500 or more
residents of such State or jurisdiction
is, or is reasonably believed to have
been, acquired during such breach.
(b) Third party service providers. A
third party service provider shall, fol-
lowing the discovery of a breach of se-
curity, provide notice of the breach to
an official designated in a written con-
tract by the vendor of personal health
records or the PHR related entity to
receive such notices or, if such a des-
ignation is not made, to a senior offi-
cial at the vendor of personal health
records or PHR related entity to which
it provides services, and obtain ac-
knowledgment from such official that
such notice was received. Such notifi-
cation shall include the identification
of each customer of the vendor of per-
sonal health records or PHR related en-
tity whose unsecured PHR identifiable
health information has been, or is rea-
sonably believed to have been, acquired
during such breach. For purposes of en-
suring implementation of this para-
graph (b), vendors of personal health
records and PHR related entities shall
notify third party service providers of
their status as vendors of personal
health records or PHR related entities
subject to this part. While some third
party service providers may access un-
secured PHR identifiable health infor-
mation in the course of providing serv-
ices, this does not render the third
party service provider a PHR related
entity.
(c) Breaches treated as discovered. A
breach of security shall be treated as
discovered as of the first day on which
such breach is known or reasonably
should have been known to the vendor
of personal health records, PHR related
entity, or third party service provider,
respectively. Such vendor, entity, or
third party service provider shall be
deemed to have knowledge of a breach
if such breach is known, or reasonably
should have been known, to any per-
son, other than the person committing
the breach, who is an employee, officer,
or other agent of such vendor of per-
sonal health records, PHR related enti-
ty, or third party service provider.
§ 318.4 Timeliness of notification.
(a) In general. Except as provided in
paragraph (d) of this section (exception
for law enforcement), all notifications
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00497 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
488
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 318.5
required under § 318.3(a)(1) (required no-
tice to individuals), (a)(3) (required no-
tice to media), and (b) (required notice
by third party service providers), shall
be sent without unreasonable delay and
in no case later than 60 calendar days
after the discovery of a breach of secu-
rity.
(b) Timing of notice to FTC. All notifi-
cations required under § 318.5(c) (re-
garding notice to FTC) involving the
unsecured PHR identifiable health in-
formation of 500 or more individuals
shall be provided contemporaneously
with the notice required by paragraph
(a) of this section. All logged notifica-
tions required under § 318.5(c) (regard-
ing notice to FTC) involving the unse-
cured PHR identifiable health informa-
tion of fewer than 500 individuals may
be sent annually to the Federal Trade
Commission no later than 60 calendar
days following the end of the calendar
year.
(c) Burden of proof. The vendor of per-
sonal health records, PHR related enti-
ty, and third party service provider in-
volved shall have the burden of dem-
onstrating that all notifications were
made as required under this part, in-
cluding evidence demonstrating the ne-
cessity of any delay.
(d) Law enforcement exception. If a law
enforcement official determines that a
notification, notice, or posting re-
quired under this part would impede a
criminal investigation or cause damage
to national security, such notification,
notice, or posting shall be delayed.
This paragraph (d) shall be imple-
mented in the same manner as pro-
vided under 45 CFR 164.528(a)(2), in the
case of a disclosure covered under
§ 164.528(a)(2).
§ 318.5 Methods of notice.
(a) Individual notice. A vendor of per-
sonal health records or PHR related en-
tity that discovers a breach of security
shall provide notice of such breach to
an individual promptly, as described in
§ 318.4 (regarding timeliness of notifica-
tion), and in the following form:
(1) Written notice at the last known
address of the individual. Written no-
tice may be sent by electronic mail if
the individual has specified electronic
mail as the primary method of commu-
nication. Any written notice sent by
electronic mail must be Clear and Con-
spicuous. Where notice via electronic
mail is not available or the individual
has not specified electronic mail as the
primary method of communication, a
vendor of personal health records or
PHR related entity may provide notice
by first-class mail at the last known
address of the individual. If the indi-
vidual is deceased, the vendor of per-
sonal health records or PHR related en-
tity that discovered the breach must
provide such notice to the next of kin
of the individual if the individual had
provided contact information for his or
her next of kin, along with authoriza-
tion to contact them. The notice may
be provided in one or more mailings as
information is available.
(2) If, after making reasonable efforts
to contact all individuals to whom no-
tice is required under § 318.3(a), through
the means provided in paragraph (a)(1)
of this section, the vendor of personal
health records or PHR related entity
finds that contact information for ten
or more individuals is insufficient or
out-of-date, the vendor of personal
health records or PHR related entity
shall provide substitute notice, which
shall be reasonably calculated to reach
the individuals affected by the breach,
in the following form:
(i) Through a conspicuous posting for
a period of 90 days on the home page of
its website; or
(ii) In major print or broadcast
media, including major media in geo-
graphic areas where the individuals af-
fected by the breach likely reside. Such
a notice in media or web posting shall
include a toll-free phone number,
which shall remain active for at least
90 days, where an individual can learn
if the individual’s unsecured PHR iden-
tifiable health information may have
been included in the breach.
(3) In any case deemed by the vendor
of personal health records or PHR re-
lated entity to require urgency because
of possible imminent misuse of unse-
cured PHR identifiable health informa-
tion, that entity may provide informa-
tion to individuals by telephone or
other means, as appropriate, in addi-
tion to notice provided under para-
graph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) Notice to media. As described in
§ 318.3(a)(3), a vendor of personal health
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00498 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
489
Federal Trade Commission § 318.9
records or PHR related entity shall
provide notice to prominent media out-
lets serving a State or jurisdiction, fol-
lowing the discovery of a breach of se-
curity, if the unsecured PHR identifi-
able health information of 500 or more
residents of such State or jurisdiction
is, or is reasonably believed to have
been, acquired during such breach.
(c) Notice to FTC. Vendors of personal
health records and PHR related enti-
ties shall provide notice to the Federal
Trade Commission following the dis-
covery of a breach of security, as de-
scribed in § 318.4(b) (regarding timing of
notice to FTC). If the breach involves
the unsecured PHR identifiable health
information of fewer than 500 individ-
uals, the vendor of personal health
records or PHR related entity may
maintain a log of any such breach and
submit such a log annually to the Fed-
eral Trade Commission as described in
§ 318.4(b) (regarding timing of notice to
FTC), documenting breaches from the
preceding calendar year. All notices
pursuant to this paragraph (c) shall be
provided according to instructions at
the Federal Trade Commission’s
website.
§ 318.6 Content of notice.
Regardless of the method by which
notice is provided to individuals under
§ 318.5 (regarding methods of notice),
notice of a breach of security shall be
in plain language and include, to the
extent possible, the following:
(a) A brief description of what hap-
pened, including: the date of the breach
and the date of the discovery of the
breach, if known; and the full name or
identity (or, where providing the full
name or identity would pose a risk to
individuals or the entity providing no-
tice, a description) of any third parties
that acquired unsecured PHR identifi-
able health information as a result of a
breach of security, if this information
is known to the vendor of personal
health records or PHR related entity;
(b) A description of the types of unse-
cured PHR identifiable health informa-
tion that were involved in the breach
(such as but not limited to full name,
Social Security number, date of birth,
home address, account number, health
diagnosis or condition, lab results,
medications, other treatment informa-
tion, the individual’s use of a health-
related mobile application, or device
identifier (in combination with another
data element));
(c) Steps individuals should take to
protect themselves from potential
harm resulting from the breach;
(d) A brief description of what the en-
tity that experienced the breach is
doing to investigate the breach, to
mitigate harm, to protect against any
further breaches, and to protect af-
fected individuals, such as offering
credit monitoring or other services;
and
(e) Contact procedures for individuals
to ask questions or learn additional in-
formation, which must include two or
more of the following: toll-free tele-
phone number; email address; website;
within-application; or postal address.
§ 318.7 Enforcement.
Any violation of this part shall be
treated as a violation of a rule promul-
gated under section 18 of the Federal
Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 57a,
regarding unfair or deceptive acts or
practices, and thus subject to civil pen-
alties (as adjusted for inflation pursu-
ant to § 1.98 of this chapter), and the
Commission will enforce this part in
the same manner, by the same means,
and with the same jurisdiction, powers,
and duties as are available to it pursu-
ant to the Federal Trade Commission
Act, 15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.
§ 318.8 Applicability date.
This part shall apply to breaches of
security that are discovered on or after
September 24, 2009.
§ 318.9 Sunset.
If new legislation is enacted estab-
lishing requirements for notification in
the case of a breach of security that
apply to entities covered by this part,
the provisions of this part shall not
apply to breaches of security discov-
ered on or after the effective date of
regulations implementing such legisla-
tion.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00499 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
