412
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
Pt. 309, App. A
APPENDIX A TO PART 309—FIGURES FOR PART 309
[60 FR 26955, May 19, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 55339, Sept. 14, 2004; 78 FR 23835, Apr. 23, 2013]
PART 310—TELEMARKETING SALES
RULE
Sec.
310.1 Scope of regulations in this part.
310.2 Definitions.
310.3 Deceptive telemarketing acts or prac-
tices.
310.4 Abusive telemarketing acts or prac-
tices.
310.5 Recordkeeping requirements.
310.6 Exemptions.
310.7 Actions by states and private persons.
310.8 Fee for access to the National Do Not
Call Registry.
310.9 Severability.
AUTHORITY: 15 U.S.C. 6101–6108.
SOURCE: 75 FR 48516, Aug. 10, 2010, unless
otherwise noted.
§ 310.1 Scope of regulations in this
part.
This part implements the Tele-
marketing and Consumer Fraud and
Abuse Prevention Act, 15 U.S.C. 6101-
6108, as amended.
§ 310.2 Definitions.
(a) Acquirer means a business organi-
zation, financial institution, or an
agent of a business organization or fi-
nancial institution that has authority
from an organization that operates or
licenses a credit card system to author-
ize merchants to accept, transmit, or
process payment by credit card
through the credit card system for
money, goods or services, or anything
else of value.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00422 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
EC29SE91.044</GPH>
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
413
Federal Trade Commission § 310.2
(b) Attorney General means the chief
legal officer of a state.
(c) Billing information means any data
that enables any person to access a
customer’s or donor’s account, such as
a credit card, checking, savings, share
or similar account, utility bill, mort-
gage loan account, or debit card.
(d) Caller identification service means a
service that allows a telephone sub-
scriber to have the telephone number,
and, where available, name of the call-
ing party transmitted contempora-
neously with the telephone call, and
displayed on a device in or connected
to the subscriber’s telephone.
(e) Cardholder means a person to
whom a credit card is issued or who is
authorized to use a credit card on be-
half of or in addition to the person to
whom the credit card is issued.
(f) Cash-to-cash money transfer means
the electronic (as defined in section
106(2) of the Electronic Signatures in
Global and National Commerce Act (15
U.S.C. 7006(2)) transfer of the value of
cash received from one person to an-
other person in a different location
that is sent by a money transfer pro-
vider and received in the form of cash.
For purposes of this definition, money
transfer provider means any person or
financial institution that provides
cash-to-cash money transfers for a per-
son in the normal course of its busi-
ness, whether or not the person holds
an account with such person or finan-
cial institution. The term cash-to-cash
money transfer includes a remittance
transfer, as defined in section 919(g)(2)
of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act
(‘‘EFTA’’), 15 U.S.C. 1693a, that is a
cash-to-cash transaction; however it
does not include any transaction that
is:
(1) An electronic fund transfer as de-
fined in section 903 of the EFTA;
(2) Covered by Regulation E, 12 CFR
1005.20, pertaining to gift cards; or
(3) Subject to the Truth in Lending
Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.
(g) Cash reload mechanism is a device,
authorization code, personal identifica-
tion number, or other security measure
that makes it possible for a person to
convert cash into an electronic (as de-
fined in section 106(2) of the Electronic
Signatures in Global and National
Commerce Act (15 U.S.C. 7006(2)) form
that can be used to add funds to a gen-
eral-use prepaid card, as defined in
Regulation E, 12 CFR 1005.2, or an ac-
count with a payment intermediary.
For purposes of this definition, a cash
reload mechanism is not itself a gen-
eral-use prepaid debit card or a swipe
reload process or similar method in
which funds are added directly onto a
person’s own general-use prepaid card
or account with a payment inter-
mediary.
(h) Charitable contribution means any
donation or gift of money or any other
thing of value.
(i) Commission means the Federal
Trade Commission.
(j) Credit means the right granted by
a creditor to a debtor to defer payment
of debt or to incur debt and defer its
payment.
(k) Credit card means any card, plate,
coupon book, or other credit device ex-
isting for the purpose of obtaining
money, property, labor, or services on
credit.
(l) Credit card sales draft means any
record or evidence of a credit card
transaction.
(m) Credit card system means any
method or procedure used to process
credit card transactions involving cred-
it cards issued or licensed by the oper-
ator of that system.
(n) Customer means any person who is
or may be required to pay for goods or
services offered through tele-
marketing.
(o) Debt relief service means any pro-
gram or service represented, directly or
by implication, to renegotiate, settle,
or in any way alter the terms of pay-
ment or other terms of the debt be-
tween a person and one or more unse-
cured creditors or debt collectors, in-
cluding, but not limited to, a reduction
in the balance, interest rate, or fees
owed by a person to an unsecured cred-
itor or debt collector.
(p) Donor means any person solicited
to make a charitable contribution.
(q) Established business relationship
means a relationship between a seller
and a person based on:
(1) The person’s purchase, rental, or
lease of the seller’s goods or services or
a financial transaction between the
person and seller, within the 540 days
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00423 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
414
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 310.2
immediately preceding the date of a
telemarketing call; or
(2) The person’s inquiry or applica-
tion regarding a good or service offered
by the seller, within the 90 days imme-
diately preceding the date of a tele-
marketing call.
(r) Free-to-pay conversion means, in an
offer or agreement to sell or provide
any goods or services, a provision
under which a customer receives a
product or service for free for an initial
period and will incur an obligation to
pay for the product or service if he or
she does not take affirmative action to
cancel before the end of that period.
(s) Investment opportunity means any-
thing, tangible or intangible, that is of-
fered, offered for sale, sold, or traded
based wholly or in part on representa-
tions, either express or implied, about
past, present, or future income, profit,
or appreciation.
(t) Material means likely to affect a
person’s choice of, or conduct regard-
ing, goods or services or a charitable
contribution.
(u) Merchant means a person who is
authorized under a written contract
with an acquirer to honor or accept
credit cards, or to transmit or process
for payment credit card payments, for
the purchase of goods or services or a
charitable contribution.
(v) Merchant agreement means a writ-
ten contract between a merchant and
an acquirer to honor or accept credit
cards, or to transmit or process for
payment credit card payments, for the
purchase of goods or services or a char-
itable contribution.
(w) Negative option feature means, in
an offer or agreement to sell or provide
any goods or services, a provision
under which the customer’s silence or
failure to take an affirmative action to
reject goods or services or to cancel the
agreement is interpreted by the seller
as acceptance of the offer.
(x) Outbound telephone call means a
telephone call initiated by a tele-
marketer to induce the purchase of
goods or services or to solicit a chari-
table contribution.
(y) Person means any individual,
group, unincorporated association, lim-
ited or general partnership, corpora-
tion, or other business entity.
(z) Preacquired account information
means any information that enables a
seller or telemarketer to cause a
charge to be placed against a cus-
tomer’s or donor’s account without ob-
taining the account number directly
from the customer or donor during the
telemarketing transaction pursuant to
which the account will be charged.
(aa) Previous donor means any person
who has made a charitable contribu-
tion to a particular charitable organi-
zation within the 2-year period imme-
diately preceding the date of the tele-
marketing call soliciting on behalf of
that charitable organization.
(bb) Prize means anything offered, or
purportedly offered, and given, or pur-
portedly given, to a person by chance.
For purposes of this definition, chance
exists if a person is guaranteed to re-
ceive an item and, at the time of the
offer or purported offer, the tele-
marketer does not identify the specific
item that the person will receive.
(cc) Prize promotion means:
(1) A sweepstakes or other game of
chance; or
(2) An oral or written express or im-
plied representation that a person has
won, has been selected to receive, or
may be eligible to receive a prize or
purported prize.
(dd) Remotely created payment order
means any payment instruction or
order drawn on a person’s account that
is created by the payee or the payee’s
agent and deposited into or cleared
through the check clearing system.
The term includes, without limitation,
a ‘‘remotely created check,’’ as defined
in Regulation CC, Availability of
Funds and Collection of Checks, 12 CFR
229.2(fff), but does not include a pay-
ment order cleared through an Auto-
mated Clearinghouse (ACH) Network or
subject to the Truth in Lending Act, 15
U.S.C. 1601 et seq., and Regulation Z, 12
CFR part 1026.
(ee) Seller means any person who, in
connection with a telemarketing trans-
action, provides, offers to provide, or
arranges for others to provide goods or
services to the customer in exchange
for consideration.
(ff) State means any state of the
United States, the District of Colum-
bia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00424 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
415
Federal Trade Commission § 310.3
1 When a seller or telemarketer uses, or di-
rects a customer to use, a courier to trans-
port payment, the seller or telemarketer
must make the disclosures required by
§ 310.3(a)(1) before sending a courier to pick
up payment or authorization for payment, or
directing a customer to have a courier pick
up payment or authorization for payment. In
the case of debt relief services, the seller or
telemarketer must make the disclosures re-
quired by § 310.3(a)(1) before the consumer en-
rolls in an offered program.
2 For offers of consumer credit products
subject to the Truth in Lending Act, 15
U.S.C. 1601 et seq., and Regulation Z, 12 CFR
226, compliance with the disclosure require-
ments under the Truth in Lending Act and
Regulation Z shall constitute compliance
with § 310.3(a)(1)(i) of this part.
Islands, and any territory or possession
of the United States.
(gg) Technical support service means
any plan, program, software, or service
that is marketed to repair, maintain,
or improve the performance or security
of any device on which code can be
downloaded, installed, run, or other-
wise used, such as a computer,
smartphone, tablet, or smart home
product, including any software or ap-
plication run on such device. Technical
support service does not include any
plan, program, software, or service in
which the person providing the repair,
maintenance, or improvement obtains
physical possession of the device being
repaired.
(hh) Telemarketer means any person
who, in connection with telemarketing,
initiates or receives telephone calls to
or from a customer or donor.
(ii) Telemarketing means a plan, pro-
gram, or campaign which is conducted
to induce the purchase of goods or serv-
ices or a charitable contribution, by
use of one or more telephones and
which involves more than one inter-
state telephone call. The term does not
include the solicitation of sales
through the mailing of a catalog
which: contains a written description
or illustration of the goods or services
offered for sale; includes the business
address of the seller; includes multiple
pages of written material or illustra-
tions; and has been issued not less fre-
quently than once a year, when the
person making the solicitation does
not solicit customers by telephone but
only receives calls initiated by cus-
tomers in response to the catalog and
during those calls takes orders only
without further solicitation. For pur-
poses of the previous sentence, the
term ‘‘further solicitation’’ does not
include providing the customer with
information about, or attempting to
sell, any other item included in the
same catalog which prompted the cus-
tomer’s call or in a substantially simi-
lar catalog.
(jj) Upselling means soliciting the
purchase of goods or services following
an initial transaction during a single
telephone call. The upsell is a separate
telemarketing transaction, not a con-
tinuation of the initial transaction. An
‘‘external upsell’’ is a solicitation
made by or on behalf of a seller dif-
ferent from the seller in the initial
transaction, regardless of whether the
initial transaction and the subsequent
solicitation are made by the same tele-
marketer. An ‘‘internal upsell’’ is a so-
licitation made by or on behalf of the
same seller as in the initial trans-
action, regardless of whether the ini-
tial transaction and subsequent solici-
tation are made by the same tele-
marketer.
[75 FR 48516, Aug. 10, 2010, as amended at 80
FR 77557, Dec. 14, 2015; 89 FR 26783, Apr. 16,
2024; 89 FR 99075, Dec. 10, 2024]
§ 310.3 Deceptive telemarketing acts or
practices.
(a) Prohibited deceptive telemarketing
acts or practices. It is a deceptive tele-
marketing act or practice and a viola-
tion of this part for any seller or tele-
marketer to engage in the following
conduct:
(1) Before a customer consents to
pay 1 for goods or services offered, fail-
ing to disclose truthfully, in a clear
and conspicuous manner, the following
material information:
(i) The total costs to purchase, re-
ceive, or use, and the quantity of, any
goods or services that are the subject
of the sales offer; 2
(ii) All material restrictions, limita-
tions, or conditions to purchase, re-
ceive, or use the goods or services that
are the subject of the sales offer;
(iii) If the seller has a policy of not
making refunds, cancellations, ex-
changes, or repurchases, a statement
informing the customer that this is the
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00425 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
416
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 310.3
seller’s policy; or, if the seller or tele-
marketer makes a representation
about a refund, cancellation, exchange,
or repurchase policy, a statement of all
material terms and conditions of such
policy;
(iv) In any prize promotion, the odds
of being able to receive the prize, and,
if the odds are not calculable in ad-
vance, the factors used in calculating
the odds; that no purchase or payment
is required to win a prize or to partici-
pate in a prize promotion and that any
purchase or payment will not increase
the person’s chances of winning; and
the no-purchase/no-payment method of
participating in the prize promotion
with either instructions on how to par-
ticipate or an address or local or toll-
free telephone number to which cus-
tomers may write or call for informa-
tion on how to participate;
(v) All material costs or conditions
to receive or redeem a prize that is the
subject of the prize promotion;
(vi) In the sale of any goods or serv-
ices represented to protect, insure, or
otherwise limit a customer’s liability
in the event of unauthorized use of the
customer’s credit card, the limits on a
cardholder’s liability for unauthorized
use of a credit card pursuant to 15
U.S.C. 1643;
(vii) If the offer includes a negative
option feature, all material terms and
conditions of the negative option fea-
ture, including, but not limited to, the
fact that the customer’s account will
be charged unless the customer takes
an affirmative action to avoid the
charge(s), the date(s) the charge(s) will
be submitted for payment, and the spe-
cific steps the customer must take to
avoid the charge(s); and
(viii) In the sale of any debt relief
service:
(A) the amount of time necessary to
achieve the represented results, and to
the extent that the service may include
a settlement offer to any of the cus-
tomer’s creditors or debt collectors,
the time by which the debt relief serv-
ice provider will make a bona fide set-
tlement offer to each of them;
(B) to the extent that the service
may include a settlement offer to any
of the customer’s creditors or debt col-
lectors, the amount of money or the
percentage of each outstanding debt
that the customer must accumulate be-
fore the debt relief service provider
will make a bona fide settlement offer
to each of them;
(C) to the extent that any aspect of
the debt relief service relies upon or re-
sults in the customer’s failure to make
timely payments to creditors or debt
collectors, that the use of the debt re-
lief service will likely adversely affect
the customer’s creditworthiness, may
result in the customer being subject to
collections or sued by creditors or debt
collectors, and may increase the
amount of money the customer owes
due to the accrual of fees and interest;
and
(D) to the extent that the debt relief
service requests or requires the cus-
tomer to place funds in an account at
an insured financial institution, that
the customer owns the funds held in
the account, the customer may with-
draw from the debt relief service at any
time without penalty, and, if the cus-
tomer withdraws, the customer must
receive all funds in the account, other
than funds earned by the debt relief
service in compliance with
§ 310.4(a)(5)(i)(A) through (C).
(2) Misrepresenting, directly or by
implication, in the sale of goods or
services any of the following material
information:
(i) The total costs to purchase, re-
ceive, or use, and the quantity of, any
goods or services that are the subject
of a sales offer;
(ii) Any material restriction, limita-
tion, or condition to purchase, receive,
or use goods or services that are the
subject of a sales offer;
(iii) Any material aspect of the per-
formance, efficacy, nature, or central
characteristics of goods or services
that are the subject of a sales offer;
(iv) Any material aspect of the na-
ture or terms of the seller’s refund,
cancellation, exchange, or repurchase
policies;
(v) Any material aspect of a prize
promotion including, but not limited
to, the odds of being able to receive a
prize, the nature or value of a prize, or
that a purchase or payment is required
to win a prize or to participate in a
prize promotion;
(vi) Any material aspect of an invest-
ment opportunity including, but not
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00426 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
417
Federal Trade Commission § 310.3
3 Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601 et
seq., and Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 226.
4 Electronic Fund Transfer Act, 15 U.S.C.
1693 et seq., and Regulation E, 12 CFR part
205.
5 For purposes of this part, the term ‘‘sig-
nature’’ shall include an electronic or digital
form of signature, to the extent that such
form of signature is recognized as a valid sig-
nature under applicable federal law or state
contract law.
limited to, risk, liquidity, earnings po-
tential, or profitability;
(vii) A seller’s or telemarketer’s af-
filiation with, or endorsement or spon-
sorship by, any person or government
entity;
(viii) That any customer needs of-
fered goods or services to provide pro-
tections a customer already has pursu-
ant to 15 U.S.C. 1643;
(ix) Any material aspect of a nega-
tive option feature including, but not
limited to, the fact that the customer’s
account will be charged unless the cus-
tomer takes an affirmative action to
avoid the charge(s), the date(s) the
charge(s) will be submitted for pay-
ment, and the specific steps the cus-
tomer must take to avoid the
charge(s); or
(x) Any material aspect of any debt
relief service, including, but not lim-
ited to, the amount of money or the
percentage of the debt amount that a
customer may save by using such serv-
ice; the amount of time necessary to
achieve the represented results; the
amount of money or the percentage of
each outstanding debt that the cus-
tomer must accumulate before the pro-
vider of the debt relief service will ini-
tiate attempts with the customer’s
creditors or debt collectors or make a
bona fide offer to negotiate, settle, or
modify the terms of the customer’s
debt; the effect of the service on a cus-
tomer’s creditworthiness; the effect of
the service on collection efforts of the
customer’s creditors or debt collectors;
the percentage or number of customers
who attain the represented results; and
whether a debt relief service is offered
or provided by a non-profit entity.
(3) Causing billing information to be
submitted for payment, or collecting or
attempting to collect payment for
goods or services or a charitable con-
tribution, directly or indirectly, with-
out the customer’s or donor’s express
verifiable authorization, except when
the method of payment used is a credit
card subject to protections of the
Truth in Lending Act and Regulation
Z,3 or a debit card subject to the pro-
tections of the Electronic Fund Trans-
fer Act and Regulation E.4 Such au-
thorization shall be deemed verifiable
if any of the following means is em-
ployed:
(i) Express written authorization by
the customer or donor, which includes
the customer’s or donor’s signature;5
(ii) Express oral authorization which
is audio-recorded and made available
upon request to the customer or donor,
and the customer’s or donor’s bank or
other billing entity, and which evi-
dences clearly both the customer’s or
donor’s authorization of payment for
the goods or services or charitable con-
tribution that are the subject of the
telemarketing transaction and the cus-
tomer’s or donor’s receipt of all of the
following information:
(A) An accurate description, clearly
and conspicuously stated, of the goods
or services or charitable contribution
for which payment authorization is
sought;
(B) The number of debits, charges, or
payments (if more than one);
(C) The date(s) the debit(s), charge(s),
or payment(s) will be submitted for
payment;
(D) The amount(s) of the debit(s),
charge(s), or payment(s);
(E) The customer’s or donor’s name;
(F) The customer’s or donor’s billing
information, identified with sufficient
specificity such that the customer or
donor understands what account will
be used to collect payment for the
goods or services or charitable con-
tribution that are the subject of the
telemarketing transaction;
(G) A telephone number for customer
or donor inquiry that is answered dur-
ing normal business hours; and
(H) The date of the customer’s or do-
nor’s oral authorization; or
(iii) Written confirmation of the
transaction, identified in a clear and
conspicuous manner as such on the
outside of the envelope, sent to the
customer or donor via first class mail
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00427 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
418
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 310.4
prior to the submission for payment of
the customer’s or donor’s billing infor-
mation, and that includes all of the in-
formation contained in
§§ 310.3(a)(3)(ii)(A)-(G) and a clear and
conspicuous statement of the proce-
dures by which the customer or donor
can obtain a refund from the seller or
telemarketer or charitable organiza-
tion in the event the confirmation is
inaccurate; provided, however, that
this means of authorization shall not
be deemed verifiable in instances in
which goods or services are offered in a
transaction involving a free-to-pay
conversion and preacquired account in-
formation.
(4) Making a false or misleading
statement to induce any person to pay
for goods or services or to induce a
charitable contribution.
(b) Assisting and facilitating. It is a de-
ceptive telemarketing act or practice
and a violation of this part for a person
to provide substantial assistance or
support to any seller or telemarketer
when that person knows or consciously
avoids knowing that the seller or tele-
marketer is engaged in any act or prac-
tice that violates §§ 310.3(a), (c) or (d),
or § 310.4 of this part.
(c) Credit card laundering. Except as
expressly permitted by the applicable
credit card system, it is a deceptive
telemarketing act or practice and a
violation of this part for:
(1) A merchant to present to or de-
posit into, or cause another to present
to or deposit into, the credit card sys-
tem for payment, a credit card sales
draft generated by a telemarketing
transaction that is not the result of a
telemarketing credit card transaction
between the cardholder and the mer-
chant;
(2) Any person to employ, solicit, or
otherwise cause a merchant, or an em-
ployee, representative, or agent of the
merchant, to present to or deposit into
the credit card system for payment, a
credit card sales draft generated by a
telemarketing transaction that is not
the result of a telemarketing credit
card transaction between the card-
holder and the merchant; or
(3) Any person to obtain access to the
credit card system through the use of a
business relationship or an affiliation
with a merchant, when such access is
not authorized by the merchant agree-
ment or the applicable credit card sys-
tem.
(d) Prohibited deceptive acts or prac-
tices in the solicitation of charitable con-
tributions. It is a fraudulent charitable
solicitation, a deceptive telemarketing
act or practice, and a violation of this
part for any telemarketer soliciting
charitable contributions to misrepre-
sent, directly or by implication, any of
the following material information:
(1) The nature, purpose, or mission of
any entity on behalf of which a chari-
table contribution is being requested;
(2) That any charitable contribution
is tax deductible in whole or in part;
(3) The purpose for which any chari-
table contribution will be used;
(4) The percentage or amount of any
charitable contribution that will go to
a charitable organization or to any
particular charitable program;
(5) Any material aspect of a prize
promotion including, but not limited
to: the odds of being able to receive a
prize; the nature or value of a prize; or
that a charitable contribution is re-
quired to win a prize or to participate
in a prize promotion; or
(6) A charitable organization’s or
telemarketer’s affiliation with, or en-
dorsement or sponsorship by, any per-
son or government entity.
[75 FR 48516, Aug. 10, 2010, as amended at 80
FR 77558, Dec. 14, 2015; 89 FR 26784, 26785, Apr.
16, 2024]
§ 310.4 Abusive telemarketing acts or
practices.
(a) Abusive conduct generally. It is an
abusive telemarketing act or practice
and a violation of this part for any sell-
er or telemarketer to engage in the fol-
lowing conduct:
(1) Threats, intimidation, or the use
of profane or obscene language;
(2) Requesting or receiving payment
of any fee or consideration for goods or
services represented to remove deroga-
tory information from, or improve, a
person’s credit history, credit record,
or credit rating until:
(i) The time frame in which the seller
has represented all of the goods or
services will be provided to that person
has expired; and
(ii) The seller has provided the person
with documentation in the form of a
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00428 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
419
Federal Trade Commission § 310.4
consumer report from a consumer re-
porting agency demonstrating that the
promised results have been achieved,
such report having been issued more
than six months after the results were
achieved. Nothing in this part should
be construed to affect the requirement
in the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15
U.S.C. 1681, that a consumer report
may only be obtained for a specified
permissible purpose;
(3) Requesting or receiving payment
of any fee or consideration from a per-
son for goods or services represented to
recover or otherwise assist in the re-
turn of money or any other item of
value paid for by, or promised to, that
person in a previous transaction, until
seven (7) business days after such
money or other item is delivered to
that person. This provision shall not
apply to goods or services provided to a
person by a licensed attorney;
(4) Requesting or receiving payment
of any fee or consideration in advance
of obtaining a loan or other extension
of credit when the seller or tele-
marketer has guaranteed or rep-
resented a high likelihood of success in
obtaining or arranging a loan or other
extension of credit for a person;
(5)(i) Requesting or receiving pay-
ment of any fee or consideration for
any debt relief service until and unless:
(A) The seller or telemarketer has re-
negotiated, settled, reduced, or other-
wise altered the terms of at least one
debt pursuant to a settlement agree-
ment, debt management plan, or other
such valid contractual agreement exe-
cuted by the customer;
(B) The customer has made at least
one payment pursuant to that settle-
ment agreement, debt management
plan, or other valid contractual agree-
ment between the customer and the
creditor or debt collector; and
(C) To the extent that debts enrolled
in a service are renegotiated, settled,
reduced, or otherwise altered individ-
ually, the fee or consideration either:
(1) Bears the same proportional rela-
tionship to the total fee for renegoti-
ating, settling, reducing, or altering
the terms of the entire debt balance as
the individual debt amount bears to
the entire debt amount. The individual
debt amount and the entire debt
amount are those owed at the time the
debt was enrolled in the service; or
(2) Is a percentage of the amount
saved as a result of the renegotiation,
settlement, reduction, or alteration.
The percentage charged cannot change
from one individual debt to another.
The amount saved is the difference be-
tween the amount owed at the time the
debt was enrolled in the service and the
amount actually paid to satisfy the
debt.
(ii) Nothing in § 310.4(a)(5)(i) prohibits
requesting or requiring the customer
to place funds in an account to be used
for the debt relief provider’s fees and
for payments to creditors or debt col-
lectors in connection with the renego-
tiation, settlement, reduction, or other
alteration of the terms of payment or
other terms of a debt, provided that:
(A) The funds are held in an account
at an insured financial institution;
(B) The customer owns the funds held
in the account and is paid accrued in-
terest on the account, if any;
(C) The entity administering the ac-
count is not owned or controlled by, or
in any way affiliated with, the debt re-
lief service;
(D) The entity administering the ac-
count does not give or accept any
money or other compensation in ex-
change for referrals of business involv-
ing the debt relief service; and
(E) The customer may withdraw from
the debt relief service at any time
without penalty, and must receive all
funds in the account, other than funds
earned by the debt relief service in
compliance with § 310.4(a)(5)(i)(A)
through (C), within seven (7) business
days of the customer’s request.
(6) Disclosing or receiving, for con-
sideration, unencrypted consumer ac-
count numbers for use in tele-
marketing; provided, however, that
this paragraph shall not apply to the
disclosure or receipt of a customer’s or
donor’s billing information to process a
payment for goods or services or a
charitable contribution pursuant to a
transaction;
(7) Causing billing information to be
submitted for payment, directly or in-
directly, without the express informed
consent of the customer or donor. In
any telemarketing transaction, the
seller or telemarketer must obtain the
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00429 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
420
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 310.4
express informed consent of the cus-
tomer or donor to be charged for the
goods or services or charitable con-
tribution and to be charged using the
identified account. In any tele-
marketing transaction involving
preacquired account information, the
requirements in paragraphs (a)(7)(i)
through (ii) of this section must be met
to evidence express informed consent.
(i) In any telemarketing transaction
involving preacquired account informa-
tion and a free-to-pay conversion fea-
ture, the seller or telemarketer must:
(A) Obtain from the customer, at a
minimum, the last four (4) digits of the
account number to be charged;
(B) Obtain from the customer his or
her express agreement to be charged
for the goods or services and to be
charged using the account number pur-
suant to paragraph (a)(7)(i)(A) of this
section; and,
(C) Make and maintain an audio re-
cording of the entire telemarketing
transaction.
(ii) In any other telemarketing trans-
action involving preacquired account
information not described in paragraph
(a)(7)(i) of this section, the seller or
telemarketer must:
(A) At a minimum, identify the ac-
count to be charged with sufficient
specificity for the customer or donor to
understand what account will be
charged; and
(B) Obtain from the customer or
donor his or her express agreement to
be charged for the goods or services
and to be charged using the account
number identified pursuant to para-
graph (a)(7)(ii)(A) of this section;
(8) Failing to transmit or cause to be
transmitted the telephone number,
and, when made available by the tele-
marketer’s carrier, the name of the
telemarketer, to any caller identifica-
tion service in use by a recipient of a
telemarketing call; provided that it
shall not be a violation to substitute
(for the name and phone number used
in, or billed for, making the call) the
name of the seller or charitable organi-
zation on behalf of which a tele-
marketing call is placed, and the sell-
er’s or charitable organization’s cus-
tomer or donor service telephone num-
ber, which is answered during regular
business hours;
(9) Creating or causing to be created,
directly or indirectly, a remotely cre-
ated payment order as payment for
goods or services offered or sold
through telemarketing or as a chari-
table contribution solicited or sought
through telemarketing; or
(10) Accepting from a customer or
donor, directly or indirectly, a cash-to-
cash money transfer or cash reload
mechanism as payment for goods or
services offered or sold through tele-
marketing or as a charitable contribu-
tion solicited or sought through tele-
marketing.
(b) Pattern of calls. (1) It is an abusive
telemarketing act or practice and a
violation of this part for a tele-
marketer to engage in, or for a seller
to cause a telemarketer to engage in,
the following conduct:
(i) Causing any telephone to ring, or
engaging any person in telephone con-
versation, repeatedly or continuously
with intent to annoy, abuse, or harass
any person at the called number;
(ii) Denying or interfering in any
way, directly or indirectly, with a per-
son’s right to be placed on any registry
of names and/or telephone numbers of
persons who do not wish to receive out-
bound telephone calls established to
comply with paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of
this section, including, but not limited
to, harassing any person who makes
such a request; hanging up on that per-
son; failing to honor the request; re-
quiring the person to listen to a sales
pitch before accepting the request; as-
sessing a charge or fee for honoring the
request; requiring a person to call a
different number to submit the re-
quest; and requiring the person to iden-
tify the seller making the call or on
whose behalf the call is made;
(iii) Initiating any outbound tele-
phone call to a person when:
(A) That person previously has stated
that he or she does not wish to receive
an outbound telephone call made by or
on behalf of the seller whose goods or
services are being offered or made on
behalf of the charitable organization
for which a charitable contribution is
being solicited; or
(B) That person’s telephone number
is on the ‘‘do-not-call’’ registry, main-
tained by the Commission, of persons
who do not wish to receive outbound
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00430 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
421
Federal Trade Commission § 310.4
1 For purposes of this part, the term ‘‘sig-
nature’’ shall include an electronic or digital
form of signature, to the extent that such
form of signature is recognized as a valid sig-
nature under applicable federal law or state
contract law.
2 For purposes of this part, the term ‘‘sig-
nature’’ shall include an electronic or digital
form of signature, to the extent that such
form of signature is recognized as a valid sig-
nature under applicable federal law or state
contract law.
telephone calls to induce the purchase
of goods or services unless the seller or
telemarketer:
(1) Can demonstrate that the seller
has obtained the express agreement, in
writing, of such person to place calls to
that person. Such written agreement
shall clearly evidence such person’s au-
thorization that calls made by or on
behalf of a specific party may be placed
to that person, and shall include the
telephone number to which the calls
may be placed and the signature 1 of
that person; or
(2) Can demonstrate that the seller
has an established business relation-
ship with such person, and that person
has not stated that he or she does not
wish to receive outbound telephone
calls under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of
this section; or
(iv) Abandoning any outbound tele-
phone call. An outbound telephone call
is ‘‘abandoned’’ under this section if a
person answers it and the telemarketer
does not connect the call to a sales rep-
resentative within two (2) seconds of
the person’s completed greeting.
(v) Initiating any outbound telephone
call that delivers a prerecorded mes-
sage, other than a prerecorded message
permitted for compliance with the call
abandonment safe harbor in
§ 310.4(b)(4)(iii), unless:
(A) In any such call to induce the
purchase of any good or service, the
seller has obtained from the recipient
of the call an express agreement, in
writing, that:
(i) The seller obtained only after a
clear and conspicuous disclosure that
the purpose of the agreement is to au-
thorize the seller to place prerecorded
calls to such person;
(ii) The seller obtained without re-
quiring, directly or indirectly, that the
agreement be executed as a condition
of purchasing any good or service;
(iii) Evidences the willingness of the
recipient of the call to receive calls
that deliver prerecorded messages by
or on behalf of a specific seller; and
(iv) Includes such person’s telephone
number and signature;2 and
(B) In any such call to induce the
purchase of any good or service, or to
induce a charitable contribution from a
member of, or previous donor to, a non-
profit charitable organization on whose
behalf the call is made, the seller or
telemarketer:
(i) Allows the telephone to ring for at
least fifteen (15) seconds or four (4)
rings before disconnecting an unan-
swered call; and
(ii) Within two (2) seconds after the
completed greeting of the person
called, plays a prerecorded message
that promptly provides the disclosures
required by § 310.4(d) or (e), followed
immediately by a disclosure of one or
both of the following:
(A) In the case of a call that could be
answered in person by a consumer, that
the person called can use an automated
interactive voice and/or keypress-acti-
vated opt-out mechanism to assert a
Do Not Call request pursuant to
§ 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(A) at any time during
the message. The mechanism must:
(1) Automatically add the number
called to the seller’s entity-specific Do
Not Call list;
(2) Once invoked, immediately dis-
connect the call; and
(3) Be available for use at any time
during the message; and
(B) In the case of a call that could be
answered by an answering machine or
voicemail service, that the person
called can use a toll-free telephone
number to assert a Do Not Call request
pursuant to § 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(A). The
number provided must connect directly
to an automated interactive voice or
keypress-activated opt-out mechanism
that:
(1) Automatically adds the number
called to the seller’s entity-specific Do
Not Call list;
(2) Immediately thereafter dis-
connects the call; and
(3) Is accessible at any time through-
out the duration of the telemarketing
campaign; and
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00431 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
422
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 310.4
3 This provision does not affect any seller’s
or telemarketer’s obligation to comply with
relevant state and federal laws, including
but not limited to the TCPA, 47 U.S.C. 227,
and 47 CFR part 64.1200.
(iii) Complies with all other require-
ments of this part and other applicable
federal and state laws.
(C) Any call that complies with all
applicable requirements of this para-
graph (v) shall not be deemed to violate
§ 310.4(b)(1)(iv) of this part.
(D) This paragraph (v) shall not apply
to any outbound telephone call that de-
livers a prerecorded healthcare mes-
sage made by, or on behalf of, a covered
entity or its business associate, as
those terms are defined in the HIPAA
Privacy Rule, 45 CFR 160.103.P≤(2) It is
an abusive telemarketing act or prac-
tice and a violation of this part for any
person to sell, rent, lease, purchase, or
use any list established to comply with
§ 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(A) or § 310.5, or main-
tained by the Commission pursuant to
§ 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(B), for any purpose ex-
cept compliance with the provisions of
this part or otherwise to prevent tele-
phone calls to telephone numbers on
such lists.
(3) A seller or telemarketer will not
be liable for violating § 310.4(b)(1)(ii)
and (iii) if it can demonstrate that, as
part of the seller’s or telemarketer’s
routine business practice:
(i) It has established and imple-
mented written procedures to comply
with § 310.4(b)(1)(ii) and (iii);
(ii) It has trained its personnel, and
any entity assisting in its compliance,
in the procedures established pursuant
to § 310.4(b)(3)(i);
(iii) The seller, or a telemarketer or
another person acting on behalf of the
seller or charitable organization, has
maintained and recorded a list of tele-
phone numbers the seller or charitable
organization may not contact, in com-
pliance with § 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(A);
(iv) The seller or a telemarketer uses
a process to prevent telemarketing to
any telephone number on any list es-
tablished pursuant to § 310.4(b)(3)(iii) or
310.4(b)(1)(iii)(B), employing a version
of the ‘‘do-not-call’’ registry obtained
from the Commission no more than
thirty-one (31) days prior to the date
any call is made, and maintains
records documenting this process;
(v) The seller or a telemarketer or
another person acting on behalf of the
seller or charitable organization, mon-
itors and enforces compliance with the
procedures established pursuant to
§ 310.4(b)(3)(i); and
(vi) Any subsequent call otherwise
violating paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or (iii) of
this section is the result of error and
not of failure to obtain any informa-
tion necessary to comply with a re-
quest pursuant to paragraph
(b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section not to re-
ceive further calls by or on behalf of a
seller or charitable organization.
(4) A seller or telemarketer will not
be liable for violating § 310.4(b)(1)(iv) if:
(i) The seller or telemarketer em-
ploys technology that ensures aban-
donment of no more than three (3) per-
cent of all calls answered by a person,
measured over the duration of a single
calling campaign, if less than 30 days,
or separately over each successive 30-
day period or portion thereof that the
campaign continues.
(ii) The seller or telemarketer, for
each telemarketing call placed, allows
the telephone to ring for at least fif-
teen (15) seconds or four (4) rings before
disconnecting an unanswered call;
(iii) Whenever a sales representative
is not available to speak with the per-
son answering the call within two (2)
seconds after the person’s completed
greeting, the seller or telemarketer
promptly plays a recorded message
that states the name and telephone
number of the seller on whose behalf
the call was placed3; and
(iv) The seller or telemarketer, in ac-
cordance with § 310.5(b)-(d), retains
records establishing compliance with
§ 310.4(b)(4)(i)-(iii).
(c) Calling time restrictions. Without
the prior consent of a person, it is an
abusive telemarketing act or practice
and a violation of this part for a tele-
marketer to engage in outbound tele-
phone calls to a person’s residence at
any time other than between 8:00 a.m.
and 9:00 p.m. local time at the called
person’s location.
(d) Required oral disclosures in the sale
of goods or services. It is an abusive tele-
marketing act or practice and a viola-
tion of this part for a telemarketer in
an outbound telephone call or internal
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00432 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
423
Federal Trade Commission § 310.5
or external upsell to induce the pur-
chase of goods or services to fail to dis-
close truthfully, promptly, and in a
clear and conspicuous manner to the
person receiving the call, the following
information:
(1) The identity of the seller;
(2) That the purpose of the call is to
sell goods or services;
(3) The nature of the goods or serv-
ices; and
(4) That no purchase or payment is
necessary to be able to win a prize or
participate in a prize promotion if a
prize promotion is offered and that any
purchase or payment will not increase
the person’s chances of winning. This
disclosure must be made before or in
conjunction with the description of the
prize to the person called. If requested
by that person, the telemarketer must
disclose the no-purchase/no-payment
entry method for the prize promotion;
provided, however, that, in any inter-
nal upsell for the sale of goods or serv-
ices, the seller or telemarketer must
provide the disclosures listed in this
section only to the extent that the in-
formation in the upsell differs from the
disclosures provided in the initial tele-
marketing transaction.
(e) Required oral disclosures in chari-
table solicitations. It is an abusive tele-
marketing act or practice and a viola-
tion of this part for a telemarketer, in
an outbound telephone call to induce a
charitable contribution, to fail to dis-
close truthfully, promptly, and in a
clear and conspicuous manner to the
person receiving the call, the following
information:
(1) The identity of the charitable or-
ganization on behalf of which the re-
quest is being made; and
(2) That the purpose of the call is to
solicit a charitable contribution.
[75 FR 48516, Aug. 10, 2010, as amended at 76
FR 58716, Sept. 22, 2011; 80 FR 77559, Dec. 14,
2015; 89 FR 26784, 26785, Apr. 16, 2024]
§ 310.5 Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Any seller or telemarketer must
keep, for a period of 5 years from the
date the record is produced unless spec-
ified otherwise, the following records
relating to its telemarketing activi-
ties:
(1) A copy of each substantially dif-
ferent advertising, brochure, tele-
marketing script, and promotional ma-
terial, and a copy of each unique
prerecorded message. Such records
must be kept for a period of 5 years
from the date that they are no longer
used in telemarketing;
(2) A record of each telemarketing
call, which must include:
(i) The telemarketer that placed or
received the call;
(ii) The seller or person for which the
telemarketing call is placed or re-
ceived;
(iii) The good, service, or charitable
purpose that is the subject of the tele-
marketing call;
(iv) Whether the telemarketing call
is to an individual consumer or a busi-
ness consumer;
(v) Whether the telemarketing call is
an outbound telephone call;
(vi) Whether the telemarketing call
utilizes a prerecorded message;
(vii) The calling number, called num-
ber, date, time, and duration of the
telemarketing call;
(viii) The telemarketing script(s) and
prerecorded message, if any, used dur-
ing the call;
(ix) The caller identification tele-
phone number, and if it is transmitted,
the caller identification name that is
transmitted in an outbound telephone
call to the recipient of the call, and
any contracts or other proof of author-
ization for the telemarketer to use
that telephone number and name, and
the time period for which such author-
ization or contract applies; and
(x) The disposition of the call, includ-
ing but not limited to, whether the call
was answered, connected, dropped, or
transferred. If the call was transferred,
the record must also include the tele-
phone number or IP address that the
call was transferred to as well as the
company name, if the call was trans-
ferred to a company different from the
seller or telemarketer that placed the
call; provided, however, that for calls
that an individual telemarketer makes
by manually entering a single tele-
phone number to initiate the call to
that number, a seller or telemarketer
need not retain the records specified in
paragraphs (a)(2)(vii) and (a)(2)(x) of
this section.
(3) For each prize recipient, a record
of the name, last known telephone
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00433 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
424
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 310.5
1 For offers of consumer credit products
subject to the Truth in Lending Act, 15
U.S.C. 1601 et seq., and Regulation Z, 12 CFR
pt. 226, compliance with the recordkeeping
requirements under the Truth in Lending
Act, and Regulation Z, will constitute com-
pliance with § 310.5(a)(4) of this part.
number, and last known physical or
email address of that prize recipient,
and the prize awarded for prizes that
are represented, directly or by implica-
tion, to have a value of $25.00 or more;
(4) For each customer, a record of the
name, last known telephone number,
and last known physical or email ad-
dress of that customer, the goods or
services purchased, the date such goods
or services were purchased, the date
such goods or services were shipped or
provided, and the amount paid by the
customer for the goods or services; 1
(5) For each person with whom a sell-
er intends to assert it has an estab-
lished business relationship under
§ 310.2(q)(2), a record of the name and
last known telephone number of that
person, the date that person submitted
an inquiry or application regarding the
seller’s goods or services, and the goods
or services inquired about;
(6) For each person that a tele-
marketer intends to assert is a pre-
vious donor to a particular charitable
organization under § 310.2(aa), a record
of the name and last known telephone
number of that person, and the last
date that person donated to that par-
ticular charitable organization;
(7) For each current or former em-
ployee directly involved in telephone
sales or solicitations, a record of the
name, any fictitious name used, the
last known home address and telephone
number, and the job title(s) of that em-
ployee; provided, however, that if the
seller or telemarketer permits ficti-
tious names to be used by employees,
each fictitious name must be traceable
to only one specific employee;
(8) All verifiable authorizations or
records of express informed consent or
express agreement (collectively, ‘‘Con-
sent’’) required to be provided or re-
ceived under this part. A complete
record of Consent includes the fol-
lowing:
(i) The name and telephone number
of the person providing Consent;
(ii) A copy of the request for Consent
in the same manner and format in
which it was presented to the person
providing Consent;
(iii) The purpose for which Consent is
requested and given;
(iv) A copy of the Consent provided;
(v) The date Consent was given; and
(vi) For the copy of Consent provided
under § 310.3(a)(3), § 310.4(a)(7),
§ 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(B)(1), or
§ 310.4(b)(1)(v)(A), a complete record
must also include all information spec-
ified in those respective sections of
this part;
(9) A record of each service provider a
telemarketer used to deliver an out-
bound telephone call to a person on be-
half of a seller for each good or service
the seller offers for sale through tele-
marketing. For each such service pro-
vider, a complete record includes the
contract for the service provided, the
date the contract was signed, and the
time period the contract is in effect.
Such contracts must be kept for 5
years from the date the contract ex-
pires;
(10) A record of each person who has
stated she does not wish to receive any
outbound telephone calls made on be-
half of a seller or charitable organiza-
tion pursuant to § 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(A) in-
cluding: the name of the person, the
telephone number(s) associated with
the request, the seller or charitable or-
ganization from which the person does
not wish to receive calls, the tele-
marketer that called the person, the
date the person requested that she
cease receiving such calls, and the
goods or services the seller was offering
for sale or the charitable purpose for
which a charitable contribution was
being solicited; and
(11) A record of which version of the
Commission’s ‘‘do-not-call’’ registry
was used to ensure compliance with
§ 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(B). Such record must in-
clude:
(i) The name of the entity which
accessed the registry;
(ii) The date the ‘‘do-not-call’’ reg-
istry was accessed;
(iii) The subscription account num-
ber that was used to access the reg-
istry; and
(iv) The telemarketing campaign for
which it was accessed.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00434 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
425
Federal Trade Commission § 310.5
(b) A seller or telemarketer may
keep the records required by paragraph
(a) of this section in the same manner,
format, or place as they keep such
records in the ordinary course of busi-
ness. The format for records required
by paragraph (a)(2)(vii) of this section,
and any other records that include a
time or telephone number, must also
comply with the following:
(1) The format for domestic tele-
phone numbers must comport with the
North American Numbering plan;
(2) The format for international tele-
phone numbers must comport with the
standard established in the Inter-
national Telecommunications Union’s
Recommendation ITU–T E.164: Series
E: Overall Network Operation, Tele-
phone Service, Service Operation and
Human Factors, published 11/2010 (in-
corporated by reference, see paragraph
(g)(1) of this section);
(3) The time and duration of a call
must be kept to the closest second; and
(4) Time must be recorded in Coordi-
nated Universal Time (UTC).
(c) Failure to keep each record re-
quired by paragraph (a) of this section
in a complete and accurate manner,
and in compliance with paragraph (b)
of this section, as applicable, is a viola-
tion of this part.
(d) For records kept pursuant to
paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the
seller or telemarketer will not be liable
for failure to keep complete and accu-
rate records pursuant to this part if it
can demonstrate, with documentation,
that as part of its routine business
practice:
(1) It has established and imple-
mented procedures to ensure complete-
ness and accuracy of its records;
(2) It has trained its personnel, and
any entity assisting it in its compli-
ance, in such procedures;
(3) It monitors compliance with and
enforces such procedures, and main-
tains records documenting such moni-
toring and enforcement; and
(4) Any failure to keep complete and
accurate records was temporary, due to
inadvertent error, and corrected within
30 days of discovery.
(e) The seller and the telemarketer
calling on behalf of the seller may, by
written agreement, allocate responsi-
bility between themselves for the rec-
ordkeeping required by this section.
When a seller and telemarketer have
entered into such an agreement, the
terms of that agreement will govern,
and the seller or telemarketer, as the
case may be, need not keep records
that duplicate those of the other. If by
written agreement the telemarketer
bears the responsibility for the record-
keeping requirements of this section,
the seller must establish and imple-
ment practices and procedures to en-
sure the telemarketer is complying
with the requirements of this section.
These practices and procedures include
retaining access to any record the tele-
marketer creates under this section on
the seller’s behalf. If the agreement is
unclear as to who must maintain any
required record(s), or if no such agree-
ment exists, both the telemarketer and
the seller are responsible for complying
with this section.
(f) In the event of any dissolution or
termination of the seller’s or tele-
marketer’s business, the principal of
that seller or telemarketer must main-
tain all records required under this sec-
tion. In the event of any sale, assign-
ment, or other change in ownership of
the seller’s or telemarketer’s business,
the successor business must maintain
all records required under this section.
(g) The material required in this sec-
tion is incorporated by reference into
this section with the approval of the
Director of the Federal Register under
5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. All
approved material is available for in-
spection at the Federal Trade Commis-
sion (FTC) and at the National Ar-
chives and Records Administration
(NARA). Contact FTC at: FTC Library,
(202) 326–2395, Federal Trade Commis-
sion, Room H–630, 600 Pennsylvania Av-
enue NW, Washington, DC 20580, or by
email at Library@ftc.gov. For informa-
tion on the availability of this mate-
rial at NARA, email
fr.inspection@nara.gov or go to
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-
locations.html. It is available from: The
International Telecommunications
Union, Telecommunications Standard-
ization Bureau, Place des Nations, CH–
1211 Geneva 20; (+41 22 730 5852); https://
www.itu.int/en/pages/default.aspx.
(1) Recommendation ITU–T E.164: Se-
ries E: Overall Network Operation,
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00435 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
426
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 310.6
Telephone Service, Service Operation
and Human Factors, published 11/2010.
(2) [Reserved]
[89 FR 26784, Apr. 16, 2024]
§ 310.6 Exemptions.
(a) Solicitations to induce charitable
contributions via outbound telephone
calls are not covered by
§ 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(B) of this part.
(b) The following acts or practices
are exempt from this part:
(1) The sale of pay-per-call services
subject to the Commission’s Rule enti-
tled ‘‘Trade Regulation Rule Pursuant
to the Telephone Disclosure and Dis-
pute Resolution Act of 1992,’’ 16 CFR
part 308, provided, however, that this
exemption does not apply to the re-
quirements of § 310.4(a)(1), (a)(8), (b),
and (c);
(2) The sale of franchises subject to
the Commission’s Rule entitled ‘‘Dis-
closure Requirements and Prohibitions
Concerning Franchising,’’ (‘‘Franchise
Rule’’) 16 CFR part 436, and the sale of
business opportunities subject to the
Commission’s Rule entitled ‘‘Disclo-
sure Requirements and Prohibitions
Concerning Business Opportunities,’’
(‘‘Business Opportunity Rule’’) 16 CFR
part 437, provided, however, that this
exemption does not apply to the re-
quirements of § 310.4(a)(1), (a)(8), (b),
and (c);
(3) Telephone calls in which the sale
of goods or services or charitable solic-
itation is not completed, and payment
or authorization of payment is not re-
quired, until after a face-to-face sales
or donation presentation by the seller
or charitable organization, provided,
however, that this exemption does not
apply to the requirements of
§ 310.4(a)(1), (a)(8), (b), and (c);
(4) Telephone calls initiated by a cus-
tomer or donor that are not the result
of any solicitation by a seller, chari-
table organization, or telemarketer,
provided, however, that this exemption
does not apply to any instances of
upselling included in such telephone
calls;
(5) Telephone calls initiated by a cus-
tomer or donor in response to an adver-
tisement through any medium, other
than direct mail solicitation, provided,
however, that this exemption does not
apply to:
(i) Calls initiated by a customer or
donor in response to an advertisement
relating to investment opportunities,
debt relief services, technical support
services, business opportunities other
than business arrangements covered by
the Franchise Rule or Business Oppor-
tunity Rule, or advertisements involv-
ing offers for goods or services de-
scribed in § 310.3(a)(1)(vi) or § 310.4(a)(2)
through (4);
(ii) The requirements of § 310.4(a)(9)
or (10); or
(iii) Any instances of upselling in-
cluded in such telephone calls;
(6) Telephone calls initiated by a cus-
tomer or donor in response to a direct
mail solicitation, including solicita-
tions via the U.S. Postal Service, fac-
simile transmission, electronic mail,
and other similar methods of delivery
in which a solicitation is directed to
specific address(es) or person(s), that
clearly, conspicuously, and truthfully
discloses all material information list-
ed in § 310.3(a)(1), for any goods or serv-
ices offered in the direct mail solicita-
tion, and that contains no material
misrepresentation regarding any item
contained in § 310.3(d) for any requested
charitable contribution; provided, how-
ever, that this exemption does not
apply to:
(i) Calls initiated by a customer in
response to a direct mail solicitation
relating to prize promotions, invest-
ment opportunities, debt relief serv-
ices, technical support services, busi-
ness opportunities other than business
arrangements covered by the Franchise
Rule or Business Opportunity Rule, or
goods or services described in
§ 310.3(a)(1)(vi) or § 310.4(a)(2) through
(4);
(ii) The requirements of § 310.4(a)(9)
or (10); or
(iii) Any instances of upselling in-
cluded in such telephone calls; and
(7) Telephone calls between a tele-
marketer and any business to induce
the purchase of goods or services or a
charitable contribution by the busi-
ness, provided, however that this ex-
emption does not apply to:
(i) The requirements of § 310.3(a)(2)
and(4); or
(ii) Calls to induce the retail sale of
nondurable office or cleaning supplies;
provided, however, that
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00436 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
427
Federal Trade Commission § 310.8
§§ 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(B) and 310.5 shall not
apply to sellers or telemarketers of
nondurable office or cleaning supplies.
[75 FR 48516, Aug. 10, 2010, as amended at 80
FR 77559, Dec. 14, 2015; 89 FR 26785, Apr. 16,
2024; 89 FR 99075, Dec. 10, 2024]
§ 310.7 Actions by states and private
persons.
(a) Any attorney general or other of-
ficer of a State authorized by the State
to bring an action under the Tele-
marketing and Consumer Fraud and
Abuse Prevention Act, and any private
person who brings an action under that
Act, must serve written notice of its
action on the Commission, if feasible,
prior to its initiating an action under
this part. The notice must be sent to
the Office of the Director, Bureau of
Consumer Protection, Federal Trade
Commission, Washington, DC 20580, at
tsrnotice@ftc.gov and must include a
copy of the State’s or private person’s
complaint and any other pleadings to
be filed with the court. If prior notice
is not feasible, the State or private per-
son must serve the Commission with
the required notice immediately upon
instituting its action.
(b) Nothing contained in this Section
shall prohibit any attorney general or
other authorized state official from
proceeding in state court on the basis
of an alleged violation of any civil or
criminal statute of such state.
[75 FR 48516, Aug. 10, 2010, as amended at 89
FR 26785, Apr. 16, 2024]
§ 310.8 Fee for access to the National
Do Not Call Registry.
(a) It is a violation of this part for
any seller to initiate, or cause any
telemarketer to initiate, an outbound
telephone call to any person whose
telephone number is within a given
area code unless such seller, either di-
rectly or through another person, first
has paid the annual fee, required by
§ 310.8(c), for access to telephone num-
bers within that area code that are in-
cluded in the National Do Not Call
Registry maintained by the Commis-
sion under § 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(B); provided,
however, that such payment is not nec-
essary if the seller initiates, or causes
a telemarketer to initiate, calls solely
to persons pursuant to
§§ 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(B)(i) or (ii), and the
seller does not access the National Do
Not Call Registry for any other pur-
pose.
(b) It is a violation of this part for
any telemarketer, on behalf of any sell-
er, to initiate an outbound telephone
call to any person whose telephone
number is within a given area code un-
less that seller, either directly or
through another person, first has paid
the annual fee, required by § 310.8(c),
for access to the telephone numbers
within that area code that are included
in the National Do Not Call Registry;
provided, however, that such payment
is not necessary if the seller initiates,
or causes a telemarketer to initiate,
calls solely to persons pursuant to
§§ 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(B)(i) or (ii), and the
seller does not access the National Do
Not Call Registry for any other pur-
pose.
(c) The annual fee, which must be
paid by any person prior to obtaining
access to the National Do Not Call
Registry, is $82 for each area code of
data accessed, up to a maximum of
$22,626; provided, however, that there
shall be no charge to any person for ac-
cessing the first five area codes of data,
and provided further, that there shall be
no charge to any person engaging in or
causing others to engage in outbound
telephone calls to consumers and who
is accessing area codes of data in the
National Do Not Call Registry if the
person is permitted to access, but is
not required to access, the National Do
Not Call Registry under 47 CFR 64.1200,
or any other Federal regulation or law.
No person may participate in any ar-
rangement to share the cost of access-
ing the National Do Not Call Registry,
including any arrangement with any
telemarketer or service provider to di-
vide the costs to access the registry
among various clients of that tele-
marketer or service provider.
(d) Each person who pays, either di-
rectly or through another person, the
annual fee set forth in paragraph (c) of
this section, each person excepted
under paragraph (c) from paying the
annual fee, and each person excepted
from paying an annual fee under
§ 310.4(b)(1)(iii)(B), will be provided a
unique account number that will allow
that person to access the registry data
for the selected area codes at any time
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00437 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
428
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 310.9
for the twelve month period beginning
on the first day of the month in which
the person paid the fee (‘‘the annual pe-
riod’’). To obtain access to additional
area codes of data during the first six
months of the annual period, each per-
son required to pay the fee under para-
graph (c) of this section must first pay
$82 for each additional area code of
data not initially selected. To obtain
access to additional area codes of data
during the second six months of the an-
nual period, each person required to
pay the fee under paragraph (c) of this
section must first pay $41 for each ad-
ditional area code of data not initially
selected. The payment of the addi-
tional fee will permit the person to ac-
cess the additional area codes of data
for the remainder of the annual period.
(e) Access to the National Do Not
Call Registry is limited to tele-
marketers, sellers, others engaged in or
causing others to engage in telephone
calls to consumers, service providers
acting on behalf of such persons, and
any government agency that has law
enforcement authority. Prior to access-
ing the National Do Not Call Registry,
a person must provide the identifying
information required by the operator of
the registry to collect the fee, and
must certify, under penalty of law,
that the person is accessing the reg-
istry solely to comply with the provi-
sions of this part or to otherwise pre-
vent telephone calls to telephone num-
bers on the registry. If the person is ac-
cessing the registry on behalf of sell-
ers, that person also must identify
each of the sellers on whose behalf it is
accessing the registry, must provide
each seller’s unique account number
for access to the national registry, and
must certify, under penalty of law,
that the sellers will be using the infor-
mation gathered from the registry
solely to comply with the provisions of
this part or otherwise to prevent tele-
phone calls to telephone numbers on
the registry.
[75 FR 48516, Aug. 10, 2010; 75 FR 51934, Aug.
24, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 51697, Aug. 27,
2012; 78 FR 53643, Aug. 30, 2013; 79 FR 51478,
Aug. 29, 2014; 80 FR 77560, Dec. 14, 2016; 81 FR
59845, Aug. 31, 2016; 82 FR 39534, Aug. 21, 2017;
83 FR 46640, Sept. 14, 2018; 84 FR 44687, Aug.
27, 2019; 85 FR 62597, Oct. 5, 2020; 86 FR 48301,
Aug. 30, 2021; 87 FR 53373, Aug. 31, 2022; 88 FR
57334, Aug. 23, 2023; 89 FR 26785, Apr. 16, 2024;
89 FR 70095, Aug. 29, 2024; 90 FR 41778, Aug.
27, 2025]
§ 310.9 Severability.
The provisions of this part are sepa-
rate and severable from one another. If
any provision is stayed or determined
to be invalid, it is the Commission’s in-
tention that the remaining provisions
shall continue in effect.
[75 FR 48516, Aug. 10, 2010, as amended at 89
FR 26785, Apr. 16, 2024]
PART 311—TEST PROCEDURES AND
LABELING STANDARDS FOR RE-
CYCLED OIL
Sec.
311.1 Definitions.
311.2 Stayed or invalid parts.
311.3 Preemption.
311.4 Testing.
311.5 Labeling.
311.6 Prohibited acts.
AUTHORITY: 42 U.S.C. 6363(d).
SOURCE: 60 FR 55421, Oct. 31, 1995, unless
otherwise noted.
§ 311.1 Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a) Manufacturer means any person
who re-refines or otherwise processes
used oil to remove physical or chem-
ical impurities acquired through use or
who blends such re-refined or otherwise
processed used oil with new oil or addi-
tives.
(b) New oil means any synthetic oil or
oil that has been refined from crude oil
and which has not been used and may
or may not contain additives. Such
term does not include used oil or recy-
cled oil.
(c) Processed used oil means re-refined
or otherwise processed used oil or blend
of oil, consisting of such re-refined or
otherwise processed used oil and new
oil or additives.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00438 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
