9
SUBCHAPTER A—GENERAL PROVISIONS
PART 2—CONFIDENTIALITY OF SUB-
STANCE USE DISORDER PATIENT
RECORDS
Subpart A—Introduction
Sec.
2.1 Statutory authority for confidentiality
of substance use disorder patient records.
2.2 Purpose and effect.
2.3 Civil and criminal penalties for viola-
tions.
2.4 Complaints of noncompliance.
Subpart B—General Provisions
2.11 Definitions.
2.12 Applicability.
2.13 Confidentiality restrictions and safe-
guards.
2.14 Minor patients.
2.15 Patients who lack capacity and de-
ceased patients.
2.16 Security for records and notification of
breaches.
2.17 Undercover agents and informants.
2.18 Restrictions on the use of identifica-
tion cards.
2.19 Disposition of records by discontinued
programs.
2.20 Relationship to state laws.
2.21 Relationship to federal statutes pro-
tecting research subjects against com-
pulsory disclosure of their identity.
2.22 Notice to patients of federal confiden-
tiality requirements.
2.23 Patient access and restrictions on use
and disclosure.
2.24 Requirements for intermediaries.
2.25 Accounting of disclosures.
2.26 Right to request privacy protection for
records.
Subpart C—Uses and Disclosures With
Patient Consent
2.31 Consent requirements.
;2.32 Notice and copy of consent to accom-
pany disclosure.
2.33 Uses and disclosures permitted with
written consent.
2.34 Uses and Disclosures to prevent mul-
tiple enrollments.
2.35 Disclosures to elements of the criminal
justice system which have referred pa-
tients.
2.36 Disclosures to prescription drug moni-
toring programs.
Subpart D—Uses and Disclosures Without
Patient Consent
2.51 Medical emergencies.
2.52 Scientific research.
2.53 Management audits, financial audits,
and program evaluation.
2.54 Disclosures for public health.
Subpart E—Court Orders Authorizing Use
and Disclosure
2.61 Legal effect of order.
2.62 Order not applicable to records dis-
closed without consent to researchers,
auditors and evaluators.
2.63 Confidential communications.
2.64 Procedures and criteria for orders au-
thorizing uses and disclosures for non-
criminal purposes.
2.65 Procedures and criteria for orders au-
thorizing use and disclosure of records to
criminally investigate or prosecute pa-
tients.
2.66 Procedures and criteria for orders au-
thorizing use and disclosure of records to
investigate or prosecute a part 2 program
or the person holding the records.
2.67 Orders authorizing the use of under-
cover agents and informants to crimi-
nally investigate employees or agents of
a part 2 program.
2.68 Report to the Secretary.
AUTHORITY: 42 U.S.C. 290dd–2; 42 U.S.C.
290dd–2 note.
SOURCE: 82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, unless
otherwise noted.
Subpart A—Introduction
§ 2.1 Statutory authority for confiden-
tiality of substance use disorder pa-
tient records.
Title 42, United States Code, section
290dd–2(g) authorizes the Secretary to
prescribe regulations to carry out the
purposes of section 290dd–2. Such regu-
lations may contain such definitions,
and may provide for such safeguards
and procedures, including procedures
and criteria for the issuance and scope
of orders under subsection 290dd–
2(b)(2)(C), as in the judgment of the
Secretary are necessary or proper to ef-
fectuate the purposes of section 290dd–
2, to prevent circumvention or evasion
thereof, or to facilitate compliance
therewith.
[89 FR 12617, Feb. 16, 2024]
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
10
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.2
§ 2.2 Purpose and effect.
(a) Purpose. Pursuant to 42 U.S.C.
290dd–2(g), the regulations in this part
impose restrictions upon the use and
disclosure of substance use disorder pa-
tient records (‘‘records,’’ as defined in
this part) which are maintained in con-
nection with the performance of any
part 2 program. The regulations in this
part include the following subparts:
(1) Subpart B: General Provisions, in-
cluding definitions, applicability, and
general restrictions;
(2) Subpart C: Uses and Disclosures
With Patient Consent, including uses
and disclosures that require patient
consent and the consent form require-
ments;
(3) Subpart D: Uses and Disclosures
Without Patient Consent, including
uses and disclosures which do not re-
quire patient consent or an authorizing
court order; and
(4) Subpart E: Court Orders Author-
izing Use and Disclosure, including
uses and disclosures of records which
may be made with an authorizing court
order and the procedures and criteria
for the entry and scope of those orders.
(b) Effect. (1) The regulations in this
part prohibit the use and disclosure of
records unless certain circumstances
exist. If any circumstance exists under
which use or disclosure is permitted,
that circumstance acts to remove the
prohibition on use and disclosure but it
does not compel the use or disclosure.
Thus, the regulations in this part do
not require use or disclosure under any
circumstance other than when disclo-
sure is required by the Secretary to in-
vestigate or determine a person’s com-
pliance with this part pursuant to
§ 2.3(c).
(2) The regulations in this part are
not intended to direct the manner in
which substantive functions such as re-
search, treatment, and evaluation are
carried out. They are intended to en-
sure that a patient receiving treatment
for a substance use disorder in a part 2
program is not made more vulnerable
by reason of the availability of their
record than an individual with a sub-
stance use disorder who does not seek
treatment.
(3) The regulations in this part shall
not be construed to limit:
(i) A patient’s right, as described in
45 CFR 164.522, to request a restriction
on the use or disclosure of a record for
purposes of treatment, payment, or
health care operations.
(ii) A covered entity’s choice, as de-
scribed in 45 CFR 164.506, to obtain the
consent of the patient to use or dis-
close a record to carry out treatment,
payment, or health care operations.
[89 FR 12618, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.3 Civil and criminal penalties for
violations.
(a) Penalties. Any person who violates
any provision of 42 U.S.C. 290dd–2(a)–
(d), shall be subject to the applicable
penalties under sections 1176 and 1177
of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C.
1320d–5 and 1320d–6.
(b) Limitation on criminal or civil liabil-
ity. A person who is acting on behalf of
an investigative agency having juris-
diction over the activities of a part 2
program or other person holding
records under this part (or employees
or agents of that part 2 program or per-
son holding the records) shall not incur
civil or criminal liability under 42
U.S.C. 290dd–2(f) for use or disclosure of
such records inconsistent with this
part that occurs while acting within
the scope of their employment in the
course of investigating or prosecuting
a part 2 program or person holding the
record, if the person or investigative
agency demonstrates that the fol-
lowing conditions are met:
(1) Before presenting a request, sub-
poena, or other demand for records, or
placing an undercover agent or inform-
ant in a health care practice or pro-
vider, as applicable, such person acted
with reasonable diligence to determine
whether the regulations in this part
apply to the records, part 2 program, or
other person holding records under this
part. Reasonable diligence means tak-
ing all of the following actions where it
is reasonable to believe that the prac-
tice or provider provides substance use
disorder diagnostic, treatment, or re-
ferral for treatment services:
(i) Searching for the practice or pro-
vider among the substance use disorder
treatment facilities in the online treat-
ment locator maintained by the Sub-
stance Abuse and Mental Health Serv-
ices Administration.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
11
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.11
(ii) Searching in a similar state data-
base of treatment facilities where
available.
(iii) Checking a provider’s publicly
available website, where available, or
its physical location to determine
whether in fact such services are pro-
vided.
(iv) Viewing the provider’s Patient
Notice or the Health Insurance Port-
ability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA) Notice of Privacy Practices
(NPP) if it is available online or at the
physical location.
(v) Taking all these actions within a
reasonable period of time (no more
than 60 days) before requesting records
from, or placing an undercover agent
or informant in, a health care practice
or provider.
(2) The person followed all of the ap-
plicable provisions in this part for any
use or disclosure of the received
records under this part that occurred,
or will occur, after the person or inves-
tigative agency knew, or by exercising
reasonable diligence would have
known, that it received records under
this part.
(c) Enforcement. The provisions of 45
CFR part 160, subparts C, D, and E,
shall apply to noncompliance with this
part in the same manner as they apply
to covered entities and business associ-
ates for noncompliance with 45 CFR
parts 160 and 164.
[89 FR 12618, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.4 Complaints of noncompliance.
(a) Receipt of complaints. A part 2 pro-
gram must provide a process to receive
complaints concerning the program’s
compliance with the requirements of
this part.
(b) Right to file a complaint. A person
may file a complaint to the Secretary
for a violation of this part by a part 2
program, covered entity, business asso-
ciate, qualified service organization, or
lawful holder in the same manner as a
person may file a complaint under 45
CFR 160.306 for a violation of the ad-
ministrative simplification provisions
of the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of
1996.
(c) Refraining from intimidating or re-
taliatory acts. A part 2 program may
not intimidate, threaten, coerce, dis-
criminate against, or take other retal-
iatory action against any patient for
the exercise by the patient of any right
established, or for participation in any
process provided for, by this part, in-
cluding the filing of a complaint under
this section or § 2.3(c).
(d) Waiver of rights. A part 2 program
may not require patients to waive their
right to file a complaint under this sec-
tion or § 2.3 as a condition of the provi-
sion of treatment, payment, enroll-
ment, or eligibility for any program
subject to this part.
[89 FR 12618, Feb. 16, 2024]
Subpart B—General Provisions
§ 2.11 Definitions.
For purposes of the regulations in
this part:
Breach has the same meaning given
that term in 45 CFR 164.402.
Business associate has the same mean-
ing given that term in 45 CFR 160.103.
Central registry means an organiza-
tion which obtains from two or more
member programs patient identifying
information about individuals applying
for withdrawal management or mainte-
nance treatment for the purpose of
avoiding an individual’s concurrent en-
rollment in more than one treatment
program.
Covered entity has the same meaning
given that term in 45 CFR 160.103.
Diagnosis means any reference to an
individual’s substance use disorder or
to a condition which is identified as
having been caused by that substance
use disorder which is made for the pur-
pose of treatment or referral for treat-
ment.
Disclose means to communicate any
information identifying a patient as
being or having been diagnosed with a
substance use disorder, having or hav-
ing had a substance use disorder, or
being or having been referred for treat-
ment of a substance use disorder either
directly, by reference to publicly avail-
able information, or through
verification of such identification by
another person.
Federally assisted—see § 2.12(b).
Health care operations has the same
meaning given that term in 45 CFR
164.501.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
12
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.11
HIPAA means the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of
1996, Public Law 104–191, as amended by
the privacy and security provisions in
subtitle D of title XIII of the Health In-
formation Technology for Economic
and Clinical Health Act, Public Law
111–5 (‘‘HITECH Act’’).
HIPAA regulations means the regula-
tions at 45 CFR parts 160 and 164 (com-
monly known as the HIPAA Privacy,
Security, Breach Notification, and En-
forcement Rules or ‘‘HIPAA Rules’’).
Informant means a person:
(1) Who is a patient or employee of a
part 2 program or who becomes a pa-
tient or employee of a part 2 program
at the request of a law enforcement
agency or official; and
(2) Who at the request of a law en-
forcement agency or official observes
one or more patients or employees of
the part 2 program for the purpose of
reporting the information obtained to
the law enforcement agency or official.
Intermediary means a person, other
than a part 2 program, covered entity,
or business associate, who has received
records under a general designation in
a written patient consent to be dis-
closed to one or more of its member
participant(s) who has a treating pro-
vider relationship with the patient.
Investigative agency means a Federal,
state, Tribal, territorial, or local ad-
ministrative, regulatory, supervisory,
investigative, law enforcement, or
prosecutorial agency having jurisdic-
tion over the activities of a part 2 pro-
gram or other person holding records
under this part.
Lawful holder means a person who is
bound by this part because they have
received records as the result of one of
the following:
(1) Written consent in accordance
with § 2.31 with an accompanying no-
tice of disclosure.
(2) One of the exceptions to the writ-
ten consent requirements in 42 U.S.C.
290dd–2 or this part.
Maintenance treatment means long-
term pharmacotherapy for individuals
with substance use disorders that re-
duces the pathological pursuit of re-
ward and/or relief and supports remis-
sion of substance use disorder-related
symptoms.
Member program means a withdrawal
management or maintenance treat-
ment program which reports patient
identifying information to a central
registry and which is in the same state
as that central registry or is in a state
that participates in data sharing with
the central registry of the program in
question.
Minor, as used in the regulations in
this part, means an individual who has
not attained the age of majority speci-
fied in the applicable state law, or if no
age of majority is specified in the ap-
plicable state law, the age of 18 years.
Part 2 program means a federally as-
sisted program (federally assisted as
defined in § 2.12(b) and program as de-
fined in this section). See § 2.12(e)(1) for
examples.
Part 2 program director means:
(1) In the case of a part 2 program
that is a natural person, that person.
(2) In the case of a part 2 program
that is an entity, the person designated
as director or managing director, or
person otherwise vested with authority
to act as chief executive officer of the
part 2 program.
Patient means any individual who has
applied for or been given diagnosis,
treatment, or referral for treatment for
a substance use disorder at a part 2
program. Patient includes any indi-
vidual who, after arrest on a criminal
charge, is identified as an individual
with a substance use disorder in order
to determine that individual’s eligi-
bility to participate in a part 2 pro-
gram. This definition includes both
current and former patients. In this
part where the HIPAA regulations
apply, patient means an individual as
that term is defined in 45 CFR 160.103.
Patient identifying information means
the name, address, Social Security
number, fingerprints, photograph, or
similar information by which the iden-
tity of a patient, as defined in this sec-
tion, can be determined with reason-
able accuracy either directly or by ref-
erence to other information.
Payment has the same meaning given
that term in 45 CFR 164.501.
Person has the same meaning given
that term in 45 CFR 160.103.
Personal representative means a person
who has authority under applicable law
to act on behalf of a patient who is an
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
13
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.11
adult or an emancipated minor in mak-
ing decisions related to health care.
Within this part, a personal representa-
tive would have authority only with re-
spect to patient records relevant to
such personal representation.
Program means:
(1) A person (other than a general
medical facility) that holds itself out
as providing, and provides, substance
use disorder diagnosis, treatment, or
referral for treatment; or
(2) An identified unit within a gen-
eral medical facility that holds itself
out as providing, and provides, sub-
stance use disorder diagnosis, treat-
ment, or referral for treatment; or
(3) Medical personnel or other staff in
a general medical facility whose pri-
mary function is the provision of sub-
stance use disorder diagnosis, treat-
ment, or referral for treatment and
who are identified as such providers.
Public health authority has the same
meaning given that term in 45 CFR
164.501.
Qualified service organization means a
person who:
(1) Provides services to a part 2 pro-
gram, such as data processing, bill col-
lecting, dosage preparation, laboratory
analyses, or legal, accounting, popu-
lation health management, medical
staffing, or other professional services,
or services to prevent or treat child
abuse or neglect, including training on
nutrition and child care and individual
and group therapy, and
(2) Has entered into a written agree-
ment with a part 2 program under
which that person:
(i) Acknowledges that in receiving,
storing, processing, or otherwise deal-
ing with any patient records from the
part 2 program, it is fully bound by the
regulations in this part; and
(ii) If necessary, will resist in judicial
proceedings any efforts to obtain ac-
cess to patient identifying information
related to substance use disorder diag-
nosis, treatment, or referral for treat-
ment except as permitted by the regu-
lations in this part.
(3) Qualified service organization in-
cludes a person who meets the defini-
tion of business associate in 45 CFR
160.103, paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), for a
part 2 program that is also a covered
entity, with respect to the use and dis-
closure of protected health information
that also constitutes a ‘‘record’’ as de-
fined by this section.
Records means any information,
whether recorded or not, created by,
received, or acquired by a part 2 pro-
gram relating to a patient (e.g., diag-
nosis, treatment and referral for treat-
ment information, billing information,
emails, voice mails, and texts), and in-
cluding patient identifying informa-
tion, provided, however, that informa-
tion conveyed orally by a part 2 pro-
gram to a provider who is not subject
to this part for treatment purposes
with the consent of the patient does
not become a record subject to this
part in the possession of the provider
who is not subject to this part merely
because that information is reduced to
writing by that provider who is not
subject to this part. Records otherwise
transmitted by a part 2 program to a
provider who is not subject to this part
retain their characteristic as records in
the hands of the provider who is not
subject to this part, but may be seg-
regated by that provider.
Substance use disorder (SUD) means a
cluster of cognitive, behavioral, and
physiological symptoms indicating
that the individual continues using the
substance despite significant sub-
stance-related problems such as im-
paired control, social impairment,
risky use, and pharmacological toler-
ance and withdrawal. For the purposes
of the regulations in this part, this def-
inition does not include tobacco or caf-
feine use.
Substance use disorder (SUD) coun-
seling notes means notes recorded (in
any medium) by a part 2 program pro-
vider who is a SUD or mental health
professional documenting or analyzing
the contents of conversation during a
private SUD counseling session or a
group, joint, or family SUD counseling
session and that are separated from the
rest of the patient’s SUD and medical
record. SUD counseling notes excludes
medication prescription and moni-
toring, counseling session start and
stop times, the modalities and fre-
quencies of treatment furnished, re-
sults of clinical tests, and any sum-
mary of the following items: diagnosis,
functional status, the treatment plan,
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
14
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.12
symptoms, prognosis, and progress to
date.
Third-party payer means a person,
other than a health plan as defined at
45 CFR 160.103, who pays or agrees to
pay for diagnosis or treatment fur-
nished to a patient on the basis of a
contractual relationship with the pa-
tient or a member of the patient’s fam-
ily or on the basis of the patient’s eli-
gibility for Federal, state, or local gov-
ernmental benefits.
Treating provider relationship means
that, regardless of whether there has
been an actual in-person encounter:
(1) A patient is, agrees to be, or is le-
gally required to be diagnosed, evalu-
ated, or treated, or agrees to accept
consultation, for any condition by a
person; and
(2) The person undertakes or agrees
to undertake diagnosis, evaluation, or
treatment of the patient, or consulta-
tion with the patient, for any condi-
tion.
Treatment has the same meaning
given that term in 45 CFR 164.501.
Undercover agent means any federal,
state, or local law enforcement agency
or official who enrolls in or becomes an
employee of a part 2 program for the
purpose of investigating a suspected
violation of law or who pursues that
purpose after enrolling or becoming
employed for other purposes.
Unsecured protected health information
has the same meaning given that term
in 45 CFR 164.402.
Unsecured record means any record,
as defined in this part, that is not ren-
dered unusable, unreadable, or indeci-
pherable to unauthorized persons
through the use of a technology or
methodology specified by the Sec-
retary in the guidance issued under
Public Law 111–5, section 13402(h)(2).
Use means, with respect to records,
the sharing, employment, application,
utilization, examination, or analysis of
the information contained in such
records that occurs either within an
entity that maintains such informa-
tion or in the course of civil, criminal,
administrative, or legislative pro-
ceedings as described at 42 U.S.C.
290dd–2(c).
Withdrawal management means the
use of pharmacotherapies to treat or
attenuate the problematic signs and
symptoms arising when heavy and/or
prolonged substance use is reduced or
discontinued.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 85
FR 43036, July 15, 2020; 89 FR 12618, Feb. 16,
2024]
§ 2.12 Applicability.
(a) General— (1) Restrictions on use
and disclosure. The restrictions on use
and disclosure in the regulations in
this part apply to any records which:
(i) Would identify a patient as having
or having had a substance use disorder
either directly, by reference to publicly
available information, or through
verification of such identification by
another person; and
(ii) Contain substance use disorder
information obtained by a federally as-
sisted substance use disorder program
after March 20, 1972 (part 2 program),
or contain alcohol use disorder infor-
mation obtained by a federally assisted
alcohol use disorder or substance use
disorder program after May 13, 1974
(part 2 program); or if obtained before
the pertinent date, is maintained by a
part 2 program after that date as part
of an ongoing treatment episode which
extends past that date; for the purpose
of treating a substance use disorder,
making a diagnosis for that treatment,
or making a referral for that treat-
ment.
(2) Restriction on use or disclosure. The
restriction on use or disclosure of in-
formation to initiate or substantiate
any criminal charges against a patient
or to conduct any criminal investiga-
tion of a patient (42 U.S.C. 290dd–2(c))
applies to any information, whether or
not recorded, which is substance use
disorder information obtained by a fed-
erally assisted substance use disorder
program after March 20, 1972 (part 2
program), or is alcohol use disorder in-
formation obtained by a federally as-
sisted alcohol use disorder or substance
use disorder program after May 13, 1974
(part 2 program); or if obtained before
the pertinent date, is maintained by a
part 2 program after that date as part
of an ongoing treatment episode which
extends past that date; for the purpose
of treating a substance use disorder,
making a diagnosis for the treatment,
or making a referral for the treatment.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
15
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.12
(b) Federal assistance. A program is
considered to be federally assisted if:
(1) It is conducted in whole or in
part, whether directly or by contract
or otherwise by any department or
agency of the United States (but see
paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section
relating to the Department of Veterans
Affairs and the Uniformed Services);
(2) It is being carried out under a li-
cense, certification, registration, or
other authorization granted by any de-
partment or agency of the United
States including but not limited to:
(i) Participating provider in the
Medicare program;
(ii) Authorization to conduct mainte-
nance treatment or withdrawal man-
agement; or
(iii) Registration to dispense a sub-
stance under the Controlled Substances
Act to the extent the controlled sub-
stance is used in the treatment of sub-
stance use disorders;
(3) It is supported by funds provided
by any department or agency of the
United States by being:
(i) A recipient of federal financial as-
sistance in any form, including finan-
cial assistance which does not directly
pay for the substance use disorder diag-
nosis, treatment, or referral for treat-
ment; or
(ii) Conducted by a state or local gov-
ernment unit which, through general
or special revenue sharing or other
forms of assistance, receives federal
funds which could be (but are not nec-
essarily) spent for the substance use
disorder program; or
(4) It is assisted by the Internal Rev-
enue Service of the Department of the
Treasury through the allowance of in-
come tax deductions for contributions
to the program or through the granting
of tax exempt status to the program.
(c) Exceptions— (1) Department of Vet-
erans Affairs. These regulations do not
apply to information on substance use
disorder patients maintained in con-
nection with the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs’ provision of hospital
care, nursing home care, domiciliary
care, and medical services under Title
38, U.S.C. Those records are governed
by 38 U.S.C. 7332 and regulations issued
under that authority by the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs.
(2) Uniformed Services. The regula-
tions in this part apply to any informa-
tion described in paragraph (a) of this
section which was obtained by any
component of the Uniformed Services
during a period when the patient was
subject to the Uniform Code of Mili-
tary Justice except:
(i) Any interchange of that informa-
tion within the Uniformed Services and
within those components of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs fur-
nishing health care to veterans; and
(ii) Any interchange of that informa-
tion between such components and the
Uniformed Services.
(3) Communication within a part 2 pro-
gram or between a part 2 program and an
entity having direct administrative control
over that part 2 program. The restric-
tions on use and disclosure in the regu-
lations in this part do not apply to
communications of information be-
tween or among personnel having a
need for the information in connection
with their duties that arise out of the
provision of diagnosis, treatment, or
referral for treatment of patients with
substance use disorders if the commu-
nications are:
(i) Within a part 2 program; or
(ii) Between a part 2 program and an
entity that has direct administrative
control over the program.
(4) Qualified service organizations. The
restrictions on use and disclosure in
the regulations in this part do not
apply to the communications between
a part 2 program and a qualified service
organization of information needed by
the qualified service organization to
provide services to or on behalf of the
program.
(5) Crimes on part 2 program premises or
against part 2 program personnel. The re-
strictions on use and disclosure in the
regulations in this part do not apply to
communications from part 2 program
personnel to law enforcement agencies
or officials which:
(i) Are directly related to a patient’s
commission of a crime on the premises
of the part 2 program or against part 2
program personnel or to a threat to
commit such a crime; and
(ii) Are limited to the circumstances
of the incident, including the patient
status of the individual committing or
threatening to commit the crime, that
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
16
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.12
individual’s name and address, and
that individual’s last known where-
abouts.
(6) Reports of suspected child abuse and
neglect. The restrictions on use and dis-
closure in the regulations in this part
do not apply to the reporting under
state law of incidents of suspected
child abuse and neglect to the appro-
priate state or local authorities. How-
ever, the restrictions continue to apply
to the original substance use disorder
patient records maintained by the part
2 program including their use and dis-
closure for civil or criminal pro-
ceedings which may arise out of the re-
port of suspected child abuse and ne-
glect.
(d) Applicability to recipients of infor-
mation— (1) Restriction on use and disclo-
sure of records. The restriction on the
use and disclosure of any record sub-
ject to the regulations in this part to
initiate or substantiate criminal
charges against a patient or to conduct
any criminal investigation of a patient,
or to use in any civil, criminal, admin-
istrative, or legislative proceedings
against a patient, applies to any person
who obtains the record from a part 2
program, covered entity, business asso-
ciate, intermediary, or other lawful
holder, regardless of the status of the
person obtaining the record or whether
the record was obtained in accordance
with subpart E of this part. This re-
striction on use and disclosure bars,
among other things, the introduction
into evidence of a record or testimony
in any criminal prosecution or civil ac-
tion before a Federal or state court, re-
liance on the record or testimony to in-
form any decision or otherwise be
taken into account in any proceeding
before a Federal, state, or local agency,
the use of such record or testimony by
any Federal, state, or local agency for
a law enforcement purpose or to con-
duct any law enforcement investiga-
tion, and the use of such record or tes-
timony in any application for a war-
rant, absent patient consent or a court
order in accordance with subpart E of
this part. Records obtained by under-
cover agents or informants, § 2.17, or
through patient access, § 2.23, are sub-
ject to the restrictions on uses and dis-
closures.
(2) Restrictions on uses and disclo-
sures—(i) Third-party payers, administra-
tive entities, and others. The restrictions
on use and disclosure in the regula-
tions in this part apply to:
(A) Third-party payers, as defined in
this part, with regard to records dis-
closed to them by part 2 programs or
under § 2.31(a)(4)(i);
(B) Persons having direct administra-
tive control over part 2 programs with
regard to information that is subject to
the regulations in this part commu-
nicated to them by the part 2 program
under paragraph (c)(3) of this section;
and
(C) Persons who receive records di-
rectly from a part 2 program, covered
entity, business associate, inter-
mediary, or other lawful holder of pa-
tient identifying information and who
are notified of the prohibition on re-
disclosure in accordance with § 2.32. A
part 2 program, covered entity, or busi-
ness associate that receives records
based on a single consent for all treat-
ment, payment, and health care oper-
ations is not required to segregate or
segment such records.
(ii) Documentation of SUD treatment by
providers who are not part 2 programs.
Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C)
of this section, a treating provider who
is not subject to this part may record
information about a SUD and its treat-
ment that identifies a patient. This is
permitted and does not constitute a
record that has been redisclosed under
this part. The act of recording informa-
tion about a SUD and its treatment
does not by itself render a medical
record which is created by a treating
provider who is not subject to this
part, subject to the restrictions of this
part.
(e) Explanation of applicability—(1)
Coverage. These regulations cover any
information (including information on
referral and intake) about patients re-
ceiving diagnosis, treatment, or refer-
ral for treatment for a substance use
disorder created by a part 2 program.
Coverage includes, but is not limited
to, those treatment or rehabilitation
programs, employee assistance pro-
grams, programs within general hos-
pitals, school-based programs, and pri-
vate practitioners who hold themselves
out as providing, and provide substance
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
17
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.13
use disorder diagnosis, treatment, or
referral for treatment. However, the
regulations in this part would not
apply, for example, to emergency room
personnel who refer a patient to the in-
tensive care unit for an apparent over-
dose, unless the primary function of
such personnel is the provision of sub-
stance use disorder diagnosis, treat-
ment, or referral for treatment and
they are identified as providing such
services or the emergency room has
promoted itself to the community as a
provider of such services.
(2) Federal assistance to program re-
quired. If a patient’s substance use dis-
order diagnosis, treatment, or referral
for treatment is not provided by a part
2 program, that patient’s record is not
covered by the regulations in this part.
Thus, it is possible for an individual
patient to benefit from federal support
and not be covered by the confiden-
tiality regulations because the pro-
gram in which the patient is enrolled is
not federally assisted as defined in
paragraph (b) of this section. For ex-
ample, if a federal court placed an indi-
vidual in a private for-profit program
and made a payment to the program on
behalf of that individual, that patient’s
record would not be covered by the reg-
ulations in this part unless the pro-
gram itself received federal assistance
as defined by paragraph (b) of this sec-
tion.
(3) Information to which restrictions are
applicable. Whether a restriction ap-
plies to the use or disclosure of a
record affects the type of records which
may be disclosed. The restrictions on
use and disclosure apply to any records
which would identify a specified pa-
tient as having or having had a sub-
stance use disorder. The restriction on
use and disclosure of records to bring a
civil action or criminal charges against
a patient in any civil, criminal, admin-
istrative, or legislative proceedings ap-
plies to any records obtained by the
part 2 program for the purpose of diag-
nosis, treatment, or referral for treat-
ment of patients with substance use
disorders. (Restrictions on use and dis-
closure apply to recipients of records
as specified under paragraph (d) of this
section.)
(4) How type of diagnosis affects cov-
erage. These regulations cover any
record reflecting a diagnosis identi-
fying a patient as having or having had
a substance use disorder which is ini-
tially prepared by a part 2 program in
connection with the treatment or re-
ferral for treatment of a patient with a
substance use disorder. A diagnosis
prepared by a part 2 program for the
purpose of treatment or referral for
treatment, but which is not so used, is
covered by the regulations in this part.
The following are not covered by the
regulations in this part:
(i) Diagnosis which is made on behalf
of and at the request of a law enforce-
ment agency or official or a court of
competent jurisdiction solely for the
purpose of providing evidence; or
(ii) A diagnosis of drug overdose or
alcohol intoxication which clearly
shows that the individual involved does
not have a substance use disorder (e.g.,
involuntary ingestion of alcohol or
drugs or reaction to a prescribed dos-
age of one or more drugs).
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 85
FR 43036, July 15, 2020; 89 FR 12620, Feb. 16,
2024]
§ 2.13 Confidentiality restrictions and
safeguards.
(a) General. The patient records sub-
ject to the regulations in this part may
be used or disclosed only as permitted
by the regulations in this part and may
not otherwise be used or disclosed in
any civil, criminal, administrative, or
legislative proceedings conducted by
any Federal, state, or local authority.
Any use or disclosure made under the
regulations in this part must be lim-
ited to that information which is nec-
essary to carry out the purpose of the
use or disclosure.
(b) Unconditional compliance required.
The restrictions on use and disclosure
in the regulations in this part apply
whether or not the part 2 program or
other lawful holder of the patient iden-
tifying information believes that the
person seeking the information already
has it, has other means of obtaining it,
is a law enforcement agency or official
or other government official, has ob-
tained a subpoena, or asserts any other
justification for a use or disclosure
which is not permitted by the regula-
tions in this part.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
18
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.14
(c) Acknowledging the presence of pa-
tients: Responding to requests.(1) The
presence of an identified patient in a
health care facility or component of a
health care facility that is publicly
identified as a place where only sub-
stance use disorder diagnosis, treat-
ment, or referral for treatment is pro-
vided may be acknowledged only if the
patient’s written consent is obtained in
accordance with subpart C of this part
or if an authorizing court order is en-
tered in accordance with subpart E of
this part. The regulations permit ac-
knowledgment of the presence of an
identified patient in a health care fa-
cility or part of a health care facility if
the health care facility is not publicly
identified as only a substance use dis-
order diagnosis, treatment, or referral
for treatment facility, and if the ac-
knowledgment does not reveal that the
patient has a substance use disorder.
(2) Any answer to a request for a dis-
closure of patient records which is not
permissible under the regulations in
this part must be made in a way that
will not affirmatively reveal that an
identified individual has been, or is
being, diagnosed or treated for a sub-
stance use disorder. An inquiring party
may be provided a copy of the regula-
tions in this part and advised that they
restrict the disclosure of substance use
disorder patient records, but may not
be told affirmatively that the regula-
tions restrict the disclosure of the
records of an identified patient.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 85
FR 43037, July 15, 2020; 89 FR 12621, Feb. 16,
2024]
§ 2.14 Minor patients.
(a) State law not requiring parental
consent to treatment. If a minor patient
acting alone has the legal capacity
under the applicable state law to apply
for and obtain substance use disorder
treatment, any written consent for use
or disclosure authorized under subpart
C of this part may be given only by the
minor patient. This restriction in-
cludes, but is not limited to, any dis-
closure of patient identifying informa-
tion to the parent or guardian of a
minor patient for the purpose of ob-
taining financial reimbursement. The
regulations in this paragraph (a) do not
prohibit a part 2 program from refusing
to provide treatment until the minor
patient consents to a use or disclosure
that is necessary to obtain reimburse-
ment, but refusal to provide treatment
may be prohibited under a state or
local law requiring the program to fur-
nish the service irrespective of ability
to pay.
(b) State law requiring parental consent
to treatment. (1) Where state law re-
quires consent of a parent, guardian, or
other person for a minor to obtain
treatment for a substance use disorder,
any written consent for use or disclo-
sure authorized under subpart C of this
part must be given by both the minor
and their parent, guardian, or other
person authorized under state law to
act on the minor’s behalf.
(2) Where state law requires parental
consent to treatment, the fact of a mi-
nor’s application for treatment may be
communicated to the minor’s parent,
guardian, or other person authorized
under state law to act on the minor’s
behalf only if:
(i) The minor has given written con-
sent to the disclosure in accordance
with subpart C of this part; or
(ii) The minor lacks the capacity to
make a rational choice regarding such
consent as determined by the part 2
program director under paragraph (c)
of this section.
(c) Minor applicant for services lacks
capacity for rational choice. Facts rel-
evant to reducing a substantial threat
to the life or physical well-being of the
minor applicant or any other person
may be disclosed to the parent, guard-
ian, or other person authorized under
state law to act on the minor’s behalf
if the part 2 program director deter-
mines that:
(1) A minor applicant for services
lacks capacity because of extreme
youth or mental or physical condition
to make a rational decision on whether
to consent to a disclosure under sub-
part C of this part to their parent,
guardian, or other person authorized
under state law to act on the minor’s
behalf; and
(2) The minor applicant’s situation
poses a substantial threat to the life or
physical well-being of the minor appli-
cant or any other person which may be
reduced by communicating relevant
facts to the minor’s parent, guardian,
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
19
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.16
or other person authorized under state
law to act on the minor’s behalf.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 89
FR 12621, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.15 Patients who lack capacity and
deceased patients.
(a) Adult patients who lack capacity to
make health care decisions—(1) Adjudica-
tion by a court. In the case of a patient
who has been adjudicated as lacking
the capacity, for any reason other than
insufficient age, to make their own
health care decisions, any consent
which is required under the regulations
in this part may be given by the per-
sonal representative.
(2) No adjudication by a court. In the
case of a patient, other than a minor or
one who has been adjudicated as lack-
ing the capacity to make health care
decisions, that for any period suffers
from a medical condition that prevents
knowing or effective action on their
own behalf, the part 2 program director
may exercise the right of the patient to
consent to a use or disclosure under
subpart C of this part for the sole pur-
pose of obtaining payment for services
from a third-party payer or health
plan.
(b) Deceased patients—(1) Vital statis-
tics. These regulations do not restrict
the disclosure of patient identifying in-
formation relating to the cause of
death of a patient under laws requiring
the collection of death or other vital
statistics or permitting inquiry into
the cause of death.
(2) Consent by personal representative.
Any other use or disclosure of informa-
tion identifying a deceased patient as
having a substance use disorder is sub-
ject to the regulations in this part. If a
written consent to the use or disclo-
sure is required, that consent may be
given by the personal representative.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 83
FR 251, Jan. 3, 2018’ 89 FR 12622, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.16 Security for records and notifi-
cation of breaches.
(a) The part 2 program or other law-
ful holder of patient identifying infor-
mation must have in place formal poli-
cies and procedures to reasonably pro-
tect against unauthorized uses and dis-
closures of patient identifying informa-
tion and to protect against reasonably
anticipated threats or hazards to the
security of patient identifying infor-
mation.
(1) Requirements for formal policies and
procedures. These policies and proce-
dures must address all of the following:
(i) Paper records, including:
(A) Transferring and removing such
records;
(B) Destroying such records, includ-
ing sanitizing the hard copy media as-
sociated with the paper printouts, to
render the patient identifying informa-
tion non-retrievable;
(C) Maintaining such records in a se-
cure room, locked file cabinet, safe, or
other similar container, or storage fa-
cility when not in use;
(D) Using and accessing
workstations, secure rooms, locked file
cabinets, safes, or other similar con-
tainers, and storage facilities that use
or store such information; and
(E) Rendering patient identifying in-
formation de-identified in accordance
with the requirements of 45 CFR
164.514(b) such that there is no reason-
able basis to believe that the informa-
tion can be used to identify a par-
ticular patient.
(ii) Electronic records, including:
(A) Creating, receiving, maintaining,
and transmitting such records;
(B) Destroying such records, includ-
ing sanitizing the electronic media on
which such records are stored, to
render the patient identifying informa-
tion non-retrievable;
(C) Using and accessing electronic
records or other electronic media con-
taining patient identifying informa-
tion; and
(D) Rendering the patient identifying
information de-identified in accordance
with the requirements of 45 CFR
164.514(b) such that there is no reason-
able basis to believe that the informa-
tion can be used to identify a patient.
(2) Exception for certain lawful holders.
Family, friends, and other informal
caregivers who are lawful holders as
defined in this part are not required to
comply with paragraph (a) of this sec-
tion.
(b) The provisions of 45 CFR part 160
and subpart D of 45 CFR part 164 shall
apply to part 2 programs with respect
to breaches of unsecured records in the
same manner as those provisions apply
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
20
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.17
to a covered entity with respect to
breaches of unsecured protected health
information.
[89 FR 12622, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.17 Undercover agents and inform-
ants.
(a) Restrictions on placement. Except
as specifically authorized by a court
order granted under § 2.67, no part 2
program may knowingly employ, or en-
roll as a patient, any undercover agent
or informant.
(b) Restriction on use and disclosure of
information. No information obtained
by an undercover agent or informant,
whether or not that undercover agent
or informant is placed in a part 2 pro-
gram pursuant to an authorizing court
order, may be used or disclosed to
criminally investigate or prosecute
any patient.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 89
FR 12622, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.18 Restrictions on the use of identi-
fication cards.
No person may require any patient to
carry in their immediate possession
while away from the part 2 program
premises any card or other object
which would identify the patient as
having a substance use disorder. This
section does not prohibit a person from
requiring patients to use or carry cards
or other identification objects on the
premises of a part 2 program.
§ 2.19 Disposition of records by discon-
tinued programs.
(a) General. If a part 2 program dis-
continues operations or is taken over
or acquired by another program, it
must remove patient identifying infor-
mation from its records or destroy its
records, including sanitizing any asso-
ciated hard copy or electronic media,
to render the patient identifying infor-
mation non-retrievable in a manner
consistent with the policies and proce-
dures established under § 2.16, unless:
(1) The patient who is the subject of
the records gives written consent
(meeting the requirements of § 2.31) to
a transfer of the records to the acquir-
ing program or to any other program
designated in the consent (the manner
of obtaining this consent must mini-
mize the likelihood of a disclosure of
patient identifying information to a
third party);
(2) There is a legal requirement that
the records be kept for a period speci-
fied by law which does not expire until
after the discontinuation or acquisi-
tion of the part 2 program; or
(3) The part 2 program is transferred,
retroceded, or reassumed pursuant to
the Indian Self-Determination and
Education Assistance Act (ISDEAA), 25
U.S.C. 5301 et seq., and its imple-
menting regulations in 25 CFR part 900.
(b) Special procedure where retention
period required by law. If paragraph
(a)(2) of this section applies:
(1) Records in non-electronic (e.g.,
paper) form must be:
(i) Sealed in envelopes or other con-
tainers labeled as follows: ‘‘Records of
[insert name of program] required to be
maintained under [insert citation to
statute, regulation, court order or
other legal authority requiring that
records be kept] until a date not later
than [insert appropriate date]’’.
(A) All hard copy media from which
the paper records were produced, such
as printer and facsimile ribbons,
drums, etc., must be sanitized to
render the data non-retrievable.
(B) [Reserved]
(ii) Held under the restrictions of the
regulations in this part by a respon-
sible person who must, as soon as prac-
ticable after the end of the required re-
tention period specified on the label,
destroy the records and sanitize any
associated hard copy media to render
the patient identifying information
non-retrievable in a manner consistent
with the discontinued program’s or ac-
quiring program’s policies and proce-
dures established under § 2.16.
(2) All of the following requirements
apply to records in electronic form:
(i) Records must be:
(A) Transferred to a portable elec-
tronic device with implemented
encryption to encrypt the data at rest
so that there is a low probability of as-
signing meaning without the use of a
confidential process or key and imple-
mented access controls for the con-
fidential process or key; or
(B) Transferred, along with a backup
copy, to separate electronic media, so
that both the records and the backup
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
21
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.21
copy have implemented encryption to
encrypt the data at rest so that there
is a low probability of assigning mean-
ing without the use of a confidential
process or key and implemented access
controls for the confidential process or
key.
(ii) Within one year of the dis-
continuation or acquisition of the pro-
gram, all electronic media on which
the patient records or patient identi-
fying information resided prior to
being transferred to the device speci-
fied in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this sec-
tion or the original and backup elec-
tronic media specified in paragraph
(b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, including
email and other electronic communica-
tions, must be sanitized to render the
patient identifying information non-re-
trievable in a manner consistent with
the discontinued program’s or acquir-
ing program’s policies and procedures
established under § 2.16.
(iii) The portable electronic device or
the original and backup electronic
media must be:
(A) Sealed in a container along with
any equipment needed to read or access
the information, and labeled as follows:
‘‘Records of [insert name of program]
required to be maintained under [insert
citation to statute, regulation, court
order or other legal authority requir-
ing that records be kept] until a date
not later than [insert appropriate
date];’’ and
(B) Held under the restrictions of the
regulations in this part by a respon-
sible person who must store the con-
tainer in a manner that will protect
the information (e.g., climate-con-
trolled environment).
(iv) The responsible person must be
included on the access control list and
be provided a means for decrypting the
data. The responsible person must
store the decryption tools on a device
or at a location separate from the data
they are used to encrypt or decrypt.
(v) As soon as practicable after the
end of the required retention period
specified on the label, the portable
electronic device or the original and
backup electronic media must be sani-
tized to render the patient identifying
information non-retrievable consistent
with the policies established under
§ 2.16.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 89
FR 12622, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.20 Relationship to state laws.
The statute authorizing the regula-
tions in this part (42 U.S.C. 290dd–2)
does not preempt the field of law which
they cover to the exclusion of all state
laws in that field. If a use or disclosure
permitted under the regulations in this
part is prohibited under state law, nei-
ther the regulations in this part nor
the authorizing statute may be con-
strued to authorize any violation of
that state law. However, no state law
may either authorize or compel any
use or disclosure prohibited by the reg-
ulations in this part.
[89 FR 12623, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.21 Relationship to federal statutes
protecting research subjects
against compulsory disclosure of
their identity.
(a) Research privilege description.
There may be concurrent coverage of
patient identifying information by the
regulations in this part and by admin-
istrative action taken under section
502(c) of the Controlled Substances Act
(21 U.S.C. 872(c) and the implementing
regulations at 21 CFR part 1316); or sec-
tion 301(d) of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 241(d) and the imple-
menting regulations at 42 CFR part 2a).
These research privilege statutes con-
fer on the Secretary of Health and
Human Services and on the Attorney
General, respectively, the power to au-
thorize researchers conducting certain
types of research to withhold from all
persons not connected with the re-
search the names and other identifying
information concerning individuals
who are the subjects of the research.
(b) Effect of concurrent coverage. The
regulations in this part restrict the use
and disclosure of information about pa-
tients, while administrative action
taken under the research privilege
statutes and implementing regulations
in paragraph (a) of this section pro-
tects a person engaged in applicable re-
search from being compelled to dis-
close any identifying characteristics of
the individuals who are the subjects of
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
22
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.22
that research. The issuance under sub-
part E of this part of a court order au-
thorizing a disclosure of information
about a patient does not affect an exer-
cise of authority under these research
privilege statutes.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 89
FR 12623, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.22 Notice to patients of Federal
confidentiality requirements.
(a) Notice required. At the time of ad-
mission to a part 2 program or, in the
case that a patient does not have ca-
pacity upon admission to understand
their medical status, as soon thereafter
as the patient attains such capacity,
each part 2 program shall inform the
patient that Federal law protects the
confidentiality of substance use dis-
order patient records.
(b) Content of notice. In addition to
the communication required in para-
graph (a) of this section, a part 2 pro-
gram shall provide notice, written in
plain language, of the program’s legal
duties and privacy practices, as speci-
fied in this paragraph (b).
(1) Required elements. The notice must
include the following content:
(i) Header. The notice must contain
the following statement as a header or
otherwise prominently displayed.
NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES OF [NAME OF
PART 2 PROGRAM]
This notice describes:
• HOW HEALTH INFORMATION ABOUT
YOU MAY BE USED AND DISCLOSED
• YOUR RIGHTS WITH RESPECT TO
YOUR HEALTH INFORMATION
• HOW TO FILE A COMPLAINT CON-
CERNING A VIOLATION OF THE PRIVACY
OR SECURITY OF YOUR HEALTH INFOR-
MATION, OR OF YOUR RIGHTS CON-
CERNING YOUR INFORMATION
YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO A COPY OF THIS
NOTICE (IN PAPER OR ELECTRONIC
FORM) AND TO DISCUSS IT WITH [ENTER
NAME OR TITLE] AT [PHONE AND EMAIL]
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS.
(ii) Uses and disclosures. The notice
must contain:
(A) A description of each of the pur-
poses for which the part 2 program is
permitted or required by this part to
use or disclose records without the pa-
tient’s written consent.
(B) If a use or disclosure for any pur-
pose described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A)
of this section is prohibited or materi-
ally limited by other applicable law,
the description of such use or disclo-
sure must reflect the more stringent
law.
(C) For each purpose described in ac-
cordance with paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A)
and (B) of this section, the description
must include sufficient detail to place
the patient on notice of the uses and
disclosures that are permitted or re-
quired by this part and other applica-
ble law.
(D) A description, including at least
one example, of the types of uses and
disclosures that require written con-
sent under this part.
(E) A statement that a patient may
provide a single consent for all future
uses or disclosures for treatment, pay-
ment, and health care operations pur-
poses.
(F) A statement that the part 2 pro-
gram will make uses and disclosures
not described in the notice only with
the patient’s written consent.
(G) A statement that the patient
may revoke written consent as pro-
vided by §§ 2.31 and 2.35.
(H) A statement that includes the
following information:
(1) Records, or testimony relaying
the content of such records, shall not
be used or disclosed in any civil, ad-
ministrative, criminal, or legislative
proceedings against the patient unless
based on specific written consent or a
court order;
(2) Records shall only be used or dis-
closed based on a court order after no-
tice and an opportunity to be heard is
provided to the patient or the holder of
the record, where required by 42 U.S.C.
290dd–2 and this part; and
(3) A court order authorizing use or
disclosure must be accompanied by a
subpoena or other similar legal man-
date compelling disclosure before the
record is used or disclosed.
(iii) Separate statements for certain
uses or disclosures. If the part 2 program
intends to engage in any of the fol-
lowing activities, the description re-
quired by paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D) of this
section must include a separate state-
ment as follows:
(A) Records that are disclosed to a
part 2 program, covered entity, or busi-
ness associate pursuant to the pa-
tient’s written consent for treatment,
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
23
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.22
payment, and health care operations
may be further disclosed by that part 2
program, covered entity, or business
associate, without the patient’s writ-
ten consent, to the extent the HIPAA
regulations permit such disclosure.
(B) A part 2 program may use or dis-
close records to fundraise for the ben-
efit of the part 2 program only if the
patient is first provided with a clear
and conspicuous opportunity to elect
not to receive fundraising communica-
tions.
(iv) Patient rights. The notice must
contain a statement of the patient’s
rights with respect to their records and
a brief description of how the patient
may exercise these rights, as follows:
(A) Right to request restrictions of
disclosures made with prior consent for
purposes of treatment, payment, and
health care operations, as provided in
§ 2.26.
(B) Right to request and obtain re-
strictions of disclosures of records
under this part to the patient’s health
plan for those services for which the
patient has paid in full, in the same
manner as 45 CFR 164.522 applies to dis-
closures of protected health informa-
tion.
(C) Right to an accounting of disclo-
sures of electronic records under this
part for the past 3 years, as provided in
§ 2.25, and a right to an accounting of
disclosures that meets the require-
ments of 45 CFR 164.528(a)(2) and (b)
through (d) for all other disclosures
made with consent.
(D) Right to a list of disclosures by
an intermediary for the past 3 years as
provided in § 2.24.
(E) Right to obtain a paper or elec-
tronic copy of the notice from the part
2 program upon request.
(F) Right to discuss the notice with a
designated contact person or office
identified by the part 2 program pursu-
ant to paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this sec-
tion.
(G) Right to elect not to receive
fundraising communications.
(v) Part 2 program’s duties. The notice
must contain:
(A) A statement that the part 2 pro-
gram is required by law to maintain
the privacy of records, to provide pa-
tients with notice of its legal duties
and privacy practices with respect to
records, and to notify affected patients
following a breach of unsecured
records;
(B) A statement that the part 2 pro-
gram is required to abide by the terms
of the notice currently in effect; and
(C) For the part 2 program to apply a
change in a privacy practice that is de-
scribed in the notice to records that
the part 2 program created or received
prior to issuing a revised notice, a
statement that it reserves the right to
change the terms of its notice and to
make the new notice provisions effec-
tive for records that it maintains. The
statement must also describe how it
will provide patients with a revised no-
tice.
(vi) Complaints. The notice must con-
tain a statement that patients may
complain to the part 2 program and to
the Secretary if they believe their pri-
vacy rights have been violated, a brief
description of how the patient may file
a complaint with the program, and a
statement that the patient will not be
retaliated against for filing a com-
plaint.
(vii) Contact. The notice must con-
tain the name, or title, telephone num-
ber, and email address of a person or
office to contact for further informa-
tion about the notice.
(viii) Effective date. The notice must
contain the date on which the notice is
first in effect, which may not be earlier
than the date on which the notice is
printed or otherwise published.
(2) Optional elements. (i) In addition to
the content required by paragraph
(b)(1) of this section, if a part 2 pro-
gram elects to limit the uses or disclo-
sures that it is permitted to make
under this part, the part 2 program
may describe its more limited uses or
disclosures in its notice, provided that
the part 2 program may not include in
its notice a limitation affecting its
right to make a use or disclosure that
is required by law or permitted to be
made for emergency treatment.
(ii) For the part 2 program to apply a
change in its more limited uses and
disclosures to records created or re-
ceived prior to issuing a revised notice,
the notice must include the statements
required by paragraph (b)(1)(v)(C) of
this section.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
24
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.23
(3) Revisions to the notice. The part 2
program must promptly revise and dis-
tribute its notice whenever there is a
material change to the uses or disclo-
sures, the patient’s rights, the part 2
program’s legal duties, or other pri-
vacy practices stated in the notice. Ex-
cept when required by law, a material
change to any term of the notice may
not be implemented prior to the effec-
tive date of the notice in which such
material change is reflected.
(c) Implementation specifications: Pro-
vision of notice. A part 2 program must
make the notice required by this sec-
tion available upon request to any per-
son and to any patient; and
(1) A part 2 program must provide the
notice:
(i) No later than the date of the first
service delivery, including service de-
livered electronically, to such patient
after the compliance date for the part
2 program; or
(ii) In an emergency treatment situa-
tion, as soon as reasonably practicable
after the emergency treatment situa-
tion.
(2) If the part 2 program maintains a
physical service delivery site:
(i) Have the notice available at the
service delivery site for patients to re-
quest to take with them; and
(ii) Post the notice in a clear and
prominent location where it is reason-
able to expect patients seeking service
from the part 2 program to be able to
read the notice in a manner that does
not identify the patient as receiving
treatment or services for substance use
disorder; and
(iii) Whenever the notice is revised,
make the notice available upon request
on or after the effective date of the re-
vision and promptly comply with the
requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of
this section, if applicable.
(3) Specific requirements for elec-
tronic notice include all the following:
(i) A part 2 program that maintains a
website that provides information
about the part 2 program’s customer
services or benefits must prominently
post its notice on the website and
make the notice available electroni-
cally through the website.
(ii) A part 2 program may provide the
notice required by this section to a pa-
tient by email, if the patient agrees to
electronic notice and such agreement
has not been withdrawn. If the part 2
program knows that the email trans-
mission has failed, a paper copy of the
notice must be provided to the patient.
Provision of electronic notice by the
part 2 program will satisfy the provi-
sion requirements of this paragraph (c)
when timely made in accordance with
paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph
(c)(2)(i) of this section, if the first serv-
ice delivery to an individual is deliv-
ered electronically, the part 2 program
must provide electronic notice auto-
matically and contemporaneously in
response to the individual’s first re-
quest for service. The requirements in
paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section
apply to electronic notice.
(iv) The patient who is the recipient
of electronic notice retains the right to
obtain a paper copy of the notice from
a part 2 program upon request.
[89 FR 12623, Feb. 16. 2024]
§ 2.23 Patient access and restrictions
on use and disclosure.
(a) Patient access not prohibited. These
regulations do not prohibit a part 2
program from giving a patient access
to their own records, including the op-
portunity to inspect and copy any
records that the part 2 program main-
tains about the patient. The part 2 pro-
gram is not required to obtain a pa-
tient’s written consent or other au-
thorization under the regulations in
this part in order to provide such ac-
cess to the patient.
(b) Restriction on use and disclosure of
information. Information obtained by
patient access to their record is subject
to the restriction on use and disclosure
of records to initiate or substantiate
any criminal charges against the pa-
tient or to conduct any criminal inves-
tigation of the patient as provided for
under § 2.12(d)(1).
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 89
FR 12625, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.24 Requirements for inter-
mediaries.
Upon request, an intermediary must
provide to patients who have consented
to the disclosure of their records using
a general designation, pursuant to
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
25
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.26
§ 2.31(a)(4)(ii)(B), a list of persons to
which their records have been disclosed
pursuant to the general designation.
(a) Under this section, patient re-
quests:
(1) Must be made in writing; and
(2) Are limited to disclosures made
within the past 3 years.
(b) Under this section, the entity
named on the consent form that dis-
closes information pursuant to a pa-
tient’s general designation (the entity
that serves as an intermediary) must:
(1) Respond in 30 or fewer days of re-
ceipt of the written request; and
(2) Provide, for each disclosure, the
name(s) of the entity(ies) to which the
disclosure was made, the date of the
disclosure, and a brief description of
the patient identifying information
disclosed.
[89 FR 12625, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.25 Accounting of disclosures.
(a) General rule. Subject to the limi-
tations in paragraph (b) of this section,
a part 2 program must provide to a pa-
tient, upon request, an accounting of
all disclosures made with consent
under § 2.31 in the 3 years prior to the
date of the request (or a shorter time
period chosen by the patient). The ac-
counting of disclosures must meet the
requirements of 45 CFR 164.528(a)(2) and
(b) through (d).
(b) Accounting of disclosures for treat-
ment, payment, and health care oper-
ations. (1) A part 2 program must pro-
vide a patient with an accounting of
disclosures of records for treatment,
payment, and health care operations
only where such disclosures are made
through an electronic health record.
(2) A patient has a right to receive an
accounting of disclosures described in
paragraph (b)(1) of this section during
only the 3 years prior to the date on
which the accounting is requested.
[89 FR 12625, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.26 Right to request privacy protec-
tion for records.
(a)(1) A part 2 program must permit a
patient to request that the part 2 pro-
gram restrict uses or disclosures of
records about the patient to carry out
treatment, payment, or health care op-
erations, including when the patient
has signed written consent for such dis-
closures.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph
(a)(6) of this section, a part 2 program
is not required to agree to a restric-
tion.
(3) A part 2 program that agrees to a
restriction under paragraph (a)(1) of
this section may not use or disclose
records in violation of such restriction,
except that, if the patient who re-
quested the restriction is in need of
emergency treatment and the re-
stricted record is needed to provide the
emergency treatment, the part 2 pro-
gram may use the restricted record, or
may disclose information derived from
the record to a health care provider, to
provide such treatment to the patient.
(4) If information from a restricted
record is disclosed to a health care pro-
vider for emergency treatment under
paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the
part 2 program must request that such
health care provider not further use or
disclose the information.
(5) A restriction agreed to by a part 2
program under paragraph (a) of this
section is not effective under this sub-
part to prevent uses or disclosures re-
quired by law or permitted by this part
for purposes other than treatment,
payment, and health care operations.
(6) A part 2 program must agree to
the request of a patient to restrict dis-
closure of records about the patient to
a health plan if:
(i) The disclosure is for the purpose
of carrying out payment or health care
operations and is not otherwise re-
quired by law; and
(ii) The record pertains solely to a
health care item or service for which
the patient, or person other than the
health plan on behalf of the patient,
has paid the part 2 program in full.
(b) A part 2 program may terminate
a restriction, if one of the following ap-
plies:
(1) The patient agrees to or requests
the termination in writing.
(2) The patient orally agrees to the
termination and the oral agreement is
documented.
(3) The part 2 program informs the
patient that it is terminating its agree-
ment to a restriction, except that such
termination is:
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
26
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.31
(i) Not effective for records restricted
under paragraph (a)(6) of this section;
and
(ii) Only effective with respect to
records created or received after it has
so informed the patient.
[89 FR 12625, Feb. 16, 2024]
Subpart C—Uses and Disclosures
With Patient Consent
§ 2.31 Consent requirements.
(a) Required elements for written con-
sent. A written consent to a use or dis-
closure under the regulations in this
part may be paper or electronic and
must include:
(1) The name of the patient.
(2) The name or other specific identi-
fication of the person(s), or class of
persons, authorized to make the re-
quested use or disclosure.
(3) A description of the information
to be used or disclosed that identifies
the information in a specific and mean-
ingful fashion.
(4)(i) General requirement for desig-
nating recipients. The name(s) of the
person(s), or class of persons, to which
a disclosure is to be made (‘‘recipi-
ent(s)’’). For a single consent for all fu-
ture uses and disclosures for treat-
ment, payment, and health care oper-
ations, the recipient may be described
as ‘‘my treating providers, health
plans, third-party payers, and people
helping to operate this program’’ or a
similar statement.
(ii) Special instructions for inter-
mediaries. Notwithstanding paragraph
(a)(4)(i) of this section, if the recipient
entity is an intermediary, a written
consent must include the name(s) of
the intermediary(ies) and:
(A) The name(s) of the member par-
ticipants of the intermediary; or
(B) A general designation of a partic-
ipant(s) or class of participants, which
must be limited to a participant(s) who
has a treating provider relationship
with the patient whose information is
being used or disclosed.
(iii) Special instructions when desig-
nating certain recipients. If the recipient
is a covered entity or business asso-
ciate to whom a record (or information
contained in a record) is disclosed for
purposes of treatment, payment, or
health care operations, a written con-
sent must include the statement that
the patient’s record (or information
contained in the record) may be redis-
closed in accordance with the permis-
sions contained in the HIPAA regula-
tions, except for uses and disclosures
for civil, criminal, administrative, and
legislative proceedings against the pa-
tient.
(5) A description of each purpose of
the requested use or disclosure.
(i) The statement ‘‘at the request of
the patient’’ is a sufficient description
of the purpose when a patient initiates
the consent and does not, or elects not
to, provide a statement of the purpose.
(ii) The statement, ‘‘for treatment,
payment, and health care operations’’
is a sufficient description of the pur-
pose when a patient provides consent
once for all such future uses or disclo-
sures for those purposes.
(iii) If a part 2 program intends to
use or disclose records to fundraise on
its own behalf, a statement about the
patient’s right to elect not to receive
any fundraising communications.
(6) The patient’s right to revoke the
consent in writing, except to the ex-
tent that the part 2 program or other
lawful holder of patient identifying in-
formation that is permitted to make
the disclosure has already acted in reli-
ance on it, and how the patient may re-
voke consent.
(7) An expiration date or an expira-
tion event that relates to the indi-
vidual patient or the purpose of the use
or disclosure. The statement ‘‘end of
the treatment,’’ ‘‘none,’’ or similar lan-
guage is sufficient if the consent is for
a use or disclosure for treatment, pay-
ment, or health care operations. The
statement ‘‘end of the research study’’
or similar language is sufficient if the
consent is for a use or disclosure for re-
search, including for the creation and
maintenance of a research database or
research repository.
(8) The signature of the patient and,
when required for a patient who is a
minor, the signature of a person au-
thorized to give consent under § 2.14; or,
when required for a patient who has
been adjudicated as lacking the capac-
ity to make their own health care deci-
sions or is deceased, the signature of a
person authorized to sign under § 2.15.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
27
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.32
Electronic signatures are permitted to
the extent that they are not prohibited
by any applicable law.
(9) The date on which the consent is
signed.
(10) A patient’s written consent to
use or disclose records for treatment,
payment, or health care operations
must include all of the following state-
ments:
(i) The potential for the records used
or disclosed pursuant to the consent to
be subject to redisclosure by the recipi-
ent and no longer protected by this
part.
(ii) The consequences to the patient
of a refusal to sign the consent.
(b) Consent required: SUD counseling
notes. (1) Notwithstanding any provi-
sion of this subpart, a part 2 program
must obtain consent for any use or dis-
closure of SUD counseling notes, ex-
cept:
(i) To carry out the following treat-
ment, payment, or health care oper-
ations:
(A) Use by the originator of the SUD
counseling notes for treatment;
(B) Use or disclosure by the part 2
program for its own training programs
in which students, trainees, or practi-
tioners in SUD treatment or mental
health learn under supervision to prac-
tice or improve their skills in group,
joint, family, or individual SUD coun-
seling; or
(C) Use or disclosure by the part 2
program to defend itself in a legal ac-
tion or other proceeding brought by
the patient;
(ii) A use or disclosure that is re-
quired by § 2.2(b) or permitted by
§ 2.15(b); § 2.53 with respect to the over-
sight of the originator of the SUD
counseling notes; § 2.63(a); § 2.64.
(2) A written consent for a use or dis-
closure of SUD counseling notes may
only be combined with another written
consent for a use or disclosure of SUD
counseling notes.
(3) A part 2 program may not condi-
tion the provision to a patient of treat-
ment, payment, enrollment in a health
plan, or eligibility for benefits on the
provision of a written consent for a use
or disclosure of SUD counseling notes.
(c) Expired, deficient, or false consent.
A disclosure may not be made on the
basis of a consent which:
(1) Has expired;
(2) On its face substantially fails to
conform to any of the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) of this section;
(3) Is known to have been revoked; or
(4) Is known, or through reasonable
diligence could be known, by the per-
son holding the records to be materi-
ally false.
(d) Consent for use and disclosure of
records in civil, criminal, administrative,
or legislative proceedings. Patient con-
sent for use and disclosure of records
(or testimony relaying information
contained in a record) in a civil, crimi-
nal, administrative, or legislative in-
vestigation or proceeding cannot be
combined with a consent to use and
disclose a record for any other purpose.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 85
FR 43037, July 15, 2020; 89 FR 12625, Feb. 16,
2024]
§ 2.32 Notice and copy of consent to ac-
company disclosure.
(a) Each disclosure made with the pa-
tient’s written consent must be accom-
panied by one of the following written
statements (i.e., paragraph (a)(1) or (2)
of this section):
(1) Statement 1.
This record which has been disclosed
to you is protected by Federal con-
fidentiality rules (42 CFR part 2). These
rules prohibit you from using or dis-
closing this record, or testimony that
describes the information contained in
this record, in any civil, criminal, ad-
ministrative, or legislative proceedings
by any Federal, State, or local author-
ity, against the patient, unless author-
ized by the consent of the patient, ex-
cept as provided at 42 CFR 2.12(c)(5) or
as authorized by a court in accordance
with 42 CFR 2.64 or 2.65. In addition,
the Federal rules prohibit you from
making any other use or disclosure of
this record unless at least one of the
following applies:
(i) Further use or disclosure is ex-
pressly permitted by the written con-
sent of the individual whose informa-
tion is being disclosed in this record or
as otherwise permitted by 42 CFR part
2.
(ii) You are a covered entity or busi-
ness associate and have received the
record for treatment, payment, or
health care operations, or
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
28
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.33
(iii) You have received the record
from a covered entity or business asso-
ciate as permitted by 45 CFR part 164,
subparts A and E.
A general authorization for the re-
lease of medical or other information
is NOT sufficient to meet the required
elements of written consent to further
use or redisclose the record (see 42 CFR
2.31).
(2) Statement 2. ‘‘42 CFR part 2 pro-
hibits unauthorized use or disclosure of
these records.’’
(b) Each disclosure made with the pa-
tient’s written consent must be accom-
panied by a copy of the consent or a
clear explanation of the scope of the
consent provided.
[89 FR 12626, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.33 Uses and disclosures permitted
with written consent.
(a) If a patient consents to a use or
disclosure of their records consistent
with § 2.31, the following uses and dis-
closures are permitted, as applicable:
(1) A part 2 program may use and dis-
close those records in accordance with
that consent to any person or category
of persons identified or generally des-
ignated in the consent, except that dis-
closures to central registries and in
connection with criminal justice refer-
rals must meet the requirements of
§§ 2.34 and 2.35, respectively.
(2) When the consent provided is a
single consent for all future uses and
disclosures for treatment, payment,
and health care operations, a part 2
program, covered entity, or business
associate may use and disclose those
records for treatment, payment, and
health care operations as permitted by
the HIPAA regulations, until such time
as the patient revokes such consent in
writing.
(b) If a patient consents to a use or
disclosure of their records consistent
with § 2.31, the recipient may further
disclose such records as provided in
subpart E of this part, and as follows:
(1) When disclosed for treatment,
payment, and health care operations
activities to a covered entity or busi-
ness associate, such recipient may fur-
ther disclose those records in accord-
ance with the HIPAA regulations, ex-
cept for uses and disclosures for civil,
criminal, administrative, and legisla-
tive proceedings against the patient.
(2) When disclosed with consent given
once for all future treatment, payment,
and health care operations activities to
a part 2 program that is not a covered
entity or business associate, the recipi-
ent may further disclose those records
consistent with the consent.
(3) When disclosed for payment or
health care operations activities to a
lawful holder that is not a covered en-
tity or business associate, the recipient
may further disclose those records as
may be necessary for its contractors,
subcontractors, or legal representa-
tives to carry out the payment or
health care operations specified in the
consent on behalf of such lawful hold-
ers.
(c) Lawful holders, other than cov-
ered entities and business associates,
who wish to redisclose patient identi-
fying information pursuant to para-
graph (b)(3) of this section must have
in place a written contract or com-
parable legal instrument with the con-
tractor or voluntary legal representa-
tive, which provides that the con-
tractor, subcontractor, or voluntary
legal representative is fully bound by
the provisions of this part upon receipt
of the patient identifying information.
In making any such redisclosures, the
lawful holder must furnish such recipi-
ents with the notice required under
§ 2.32; require such recipients to imple-
ment appropriate safeguards to prevent
unauthorized uses and disclosures; and
require such recipients to report any
unauthorized uses, disclosures, or
breaches of patient identifying infor-
mation to the lawful holder. The lawful
holder may only redisclose information
to the contractor or subcontractor or
voluntary legal representative that is
necessary for the contractor, subcon-
tractor, or voluntary legal representa-
tive to perform its duties under the
contract or comparable legal instru-
ment. Contracts may not permit a con-
tractor, subcontractor, or voluntary
legal representative to redisclose infor-
mation to a third party unless that
third party is a contract agent of the
contractor or subcontractor, helping
them provide services described in the
contract, and only as long as the agent
only further discloses the information
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
29
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.34
back to the contractor or lawful holder
from which the information originated.
[89 FR 12627, Mar. 16, 2024]
§ 2.34 Uses and Disclosures to prevent
multiple enrollments.
(a) Restrictions on disclosure. A part 2
program, as defined in § 2.11, may dis-
close patient records to a central reg-
istry or to any withdrawal manage-
ment or maintenance treatment pro-
gram not more than 200 miles away for
the purpose of preventing the multiple
enrollment of a patient only if:
(1) The disclosure is made when:
(i) The patient is accepted for treat-
ment;
(ii) The type or dosage of the drug is
changed; or
(iii) The treatment is interrupted, re-
sumed or terminated.
(2) The disclosure is limited to:
(i) Patient identifying information;
(ii) Type and dosage of the drug; and
(iii) Relevant dates.
(3) The disclosure is made with the
patient’s written consent meeting the
requirements of § 2.31, except that:
(i) The consent must list the name
and address of each central registry
and each known withdrawal manage-
ment or maintenance treatment pro-
gram to which a disclosure will be
made; and
(ii) The consent may authorize a dis-
closure to any withdrawal management
or maintenance treatment program es-
tablished within 200 miles of the pro-
gram, but does not need to individually
name all programs.
(b) Use of information in records limited
to prevention of multiple enrollments. A
central registry and any withdrawal
management or maintenance treat-
ment program to which information is
disclosed to prevent multiple enroll-
ments may not use or redisclose pa-
tient identifying information for any
purpose other than the prevention of
multiple enrollments or to ensure ap-
propriate coordinated care with a
treating provider that is not a part 2
program unless authorized by a court
order under subpart E of this part.
(c) Permitted disclosure by a central
registry to prevent a multiple enrollment.
When a member program asks a central
registry if an identified patient is en-
rolled in another member program and
the registry determines that the pa-
tient is so enrolled, the registry may
disclose:
(1) The name, address, and telephone
number of the member program(s) in
which the patient is already enrolled to
the inquiring member program; and
(2) The name, address, and telephone
number of the inquiring member pro-
gram to the member program(s) in
which the patient is already enrolled.
The member programs may commu-
nicate as necessary to verify that no
error has been made and to prevent or
eliminate any multiple enrollments.
(d) Permitted disclosure by a central
registry to a non-member treating pro-
vider, to prevent a multiple enrollment.
When, for the purpose of preventing
multiple program enrollments or dupli-
cative prescriptions, or to inform pre-
scriber decision making regarding pre-
scribing of opioid medication(s) or
other prescribed substances, a provider
with a treating provider relationship
that is not a member program asks a
central registry if an identified patient
is enrolled in a member program, the
registry may disclose:
(1) The name, address, and telephone
number of the member program(s) in
which the patient is enrolled;
(2) Type and dosage of any medica-
tion for substance use disorder being
administered or prescribed to the pa-
tient by the member program(s); and
(3) Relevant dates of any such admin-
istration or prescription. The central
registry and non-member program
treating prescriber may communicate
as necessary to verify that no error has
been made and to prevent or eliminate
any multiple enrollments or improper
prescribing.
(e) Permitted disclosure by a with-
drawal management or maintenance
treatment program to prevent a multiple
enrollment. A withdrawal management
or maintenance treatment program
which has received a disclosure under
this section and has determined that
the patient is already enrolled may
communicate as necessary with the
program making the disclosure to
verify that no error has been made and
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
30
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.35
to prevent or eliminate any multiple
enrollments.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 85
FR 43038, July 15, 2020; 89 FR 12627, Feb. 16,
2024]
§ 2.35 Disclosures to elements of the
criminal justice system which have
referred patients.
(a) Consent for criminal justice refer-
rals. A part 2 program may disclose in-
formation from a record about a pa-
tient to those persons within the crimi-
nal justice system who have made par-
ticipation in the part 2 program a con-
dition of the disposition of any crimi-
nal proceedings against the patient or
of the patient’s parole or other release
from custody if:
(1) The disclosure is made only to
those persons within the criminal jus-
tice system who have a need for the in-
formation in connection with their
duty to monitor the patient’s progress
(e.g., a prosecuting attorney who is
withholding charges against the pa-
tient, a court granting pretrial or post-
trial release, probation or parole offi-
cers responsible for supervision of the
patient); and
(2) The patient has signed a written
consent meeting the requirements of
§ 2.31 (except paragraph (a)(6) of this
section which is inconsistent with the
revocation provisions of paragraph (c)
of this section) and the requirements of
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Duration of consent. The written
consent must state the period during
which it remains in effect. This period
must be reasonable, taking into ac-
count:
(1) The anticipated length of the
treatment;
(2) The type of criminal proceeding
involved, the need for the information
in connection with the final disposition
of that proceeding, and when the final
disposition will occur; and
(3) Such other factors as the part 2
program, the patient, and the person(s)
within the criminal justice system who
will receive the disclosure consider per-
tinent.
(c) Revocation of consent. The written
consent must state that it is revocable
upon the passage of a specified amount
of time or the occurrence of a specified,
ascertainable event. The time or occur-
rence upon which consent becomes rev-
ocable may be no later than the final
disposition of the conditional release
or other action in connection with
which consent was given.
(d) Restrictions on use and redisclosure.
Any persons within the criminal jus-
tice system who receive patient infor-
mation under this section may use and
redisclose it only to carry out official
duties with regard to the patient’s con-
ditional release or other action in con-
nection with which the consent was
given.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 83
FR 251, Jan. 3, 2018; 89 FR 12627, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.36 Disclosures to prescription drug
monitoring programs.
A part 2 program or other lawful
holder is permitted to report any SUD
medication prescribed or dispensed by
the part 2 program to the applicable
state prescription drug monitoring pro-
gram if required by applicable state
law. A part 2 program or other lawful
holder must obtain patient consent to
a disclosure of records to a prescription
drug monitoring program under § 2.31
prior to reporting of such information.
[85 FR 43038, July 15, 2020]
Subpart D—Uses and Disclosures
Without Patient Consent
§ 2.51 Medical emergencies.
(a) General rule. Under the procedures
required by paragraph (c) of this sec-
tion, patient identifying information
may be disclosed to medical personnel
to the extent necessary to:
(1) Meet a bona fide medical emer-
gency in which the patient’s prior writ-
ten consent cannot be obtained; or
(2) Meet a bona fide medical emer-
gency in which a part 2 program is
closed and unable to provide services or
obtain the prior written consent of the
patient, during a temporary state of
emergency declared by a state or fed-
eral authority as the result of a nat-
ural or major disaster, until such time
that the part 2 program resumes oper-
ations.
(b) Special rule. Patient identifying
information may be disclosed to med-
ical personnel of the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) who assert a
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
31
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.52
reason to believe that the health of any
individual may be threatened by an
error in the manufacture, labeling, or
sale of a product under FDA jurisdic-
tion, and that the information will be
used for the exclusive purpose of noti-
fying patients or their physicians of
potential dangers.
(c) Procedures. Immediately following
disclosure, the part 2 program shall
document, in writing, the disclosure in
the patient’s records, including:
(1) The name of the medical per-
sonnel to whom disclosure was made
and their affiliation with any health
care facility;
(2) The name of the person making
the disclosure;
(3) The date and time of the disclo-
sure; and
(4) The nature of the emergency (or
error, if the report was to FDA).
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 85
FR 43038, July 15, 2020; 89 FR 12628, Feb. 16,
2024]
§ 2.52 Scientific research.
(a) Use and disclosure of patient identi-
fying information. Notwithstanding
other provisions of this part, including
paragraph (b)(2) of this section, patient
identifying information may be used or
disclosed for the purposes of the recipi-
ent conducting scientific research if:
(1) The person designated as director
or managing director, or person other-
wise vested with authority to act as
chief executive officer or their des-
ignee, of a part 2 program or other law-
ful holder of data under this part,
makes a determination that the recipi-
ent of the patient identifying informa-
tion is:
(i) A HIPAA covered entity or busi-
ness associate that has obtained and
documented authorization from the pa-
tient, or a waiver or alteration of au-
thorization, consistent with 45 CFR
164.508 or 164.512(i), as applicable;
(ii) Subject to the HHS regulations
regarding the protection of human sub-
jects (45 CFR part 46), and provides
documentation either that the re-
searcher is in compliance with the re-
quirements of 45 CFR part 46, including
the requirements related to informed
consent or a waiver of consent (45 CFR
46.111 and 46.116) or that the research
qualifies for exemption under the HHS
regulations (45 CFR 46.104) or any suc-
cessor regulations;
(iii) Subject to the FDA regulations
regarding the protection of human sub-
jects (21 CFR parts 50 and 56) and pro-
vides documentation that the research
is in compliance with the requirements
of the FDA regulations, including the
requirements related to informed con-
sent or an exception to, or waiver of,
consent (21 CFR part 50) and any suc-
cessor regulations; or
(iv) Any combination of a HIPAA
covered entity or business associate,
and/or subject to the HHS regulations
regarding the protection of human sub-
jects, and/or subject to the FDA regula-
tions regarding the protection of
human subjects; and has met the re-
quirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i), (ii)
(iii), and/or (iv) of this section, as ap-
plicable.
(2) The part 2 program or other law-
ful holder of data under this part is a
HIPAA covered entity or business asso-
ciate, and the use or disclosure is made
in accordance with the requirements at
45 CFR 164.512(i).
(3) If neither paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of
this section apply to the receiving or
disclosing party, this section does not
apply.
(b) Requirements for researchers. Any
person conducting scientific research
using patient identifying information
obtained under paragraph (a) of this
section:
(1) Is fully bound by the regulations
in this part and, if necessary, will re-
sist in judicial proceedings any efforts
to obtain access to patient records ex-
cept as permitted by the regulations in
this part.
(2) Must not redisclose patient identi-
fying information except back to the
person from whom that patient identi-
fying information was obtained or as
permitted under paragraph (c) of this
section.
(3) May include data under this part
in research reports only in aggregate
form in which patient identifying in-
formation has been de-identified in ac-
cordance with the requirements of 45
CFR 164.514(b) such that there is no
reasonable basis to believe that the in-
formation can be used to identify a pa-
tient.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
32
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.53
(4) Must maintain and destroy pa-
tient identifying information in ac-
cordance with the security policies and
procedures established under § 2.16.
(5) Must retain records in compliance
with applicable federal, state, and local
record retention laws.
(c) Data linkages—(1) Researchers. Any
person conducting scientific research
using patient identifying information
obtained under paragraph (a) of this
section that requests linkages to data
sets from a data repository(ies) holding
patient identifying information must:
(i) Have the request reviewed and ap-
proved by an Institutional Review
Board (IRB) registered with the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices, Office for Human Research Pro-
tections in accordance with 45 CFR
part 46 to ensure that patient privacy
is considered and the need for identifi-
able data is justified. Upon request, the
researcher may be required to provide
evidence of the IRB approval of the re-
search project that contains the data
linkage component.
(ii) Ensure that patient identifying
information obtained under paragraph
(a) of this section is not provided to
law enforcement agencies or officials.
(iii) Ensure that patient identifying
information is not redisclosed for data
linkage purposes other than as pro-
vided in this paragraph (c).
(2) Data repositories. For purposes of
this section, a data repository is fully
bound by the provisions of part 2 upon
receipt of the patient identifying data
and must:
(i) After providing the researcher
with the linked data, destroy or delete
the linked data from its records, in-
cluding sanitizing any associated hard
copy or electronic media, to render the
patient identifying information non-re-
trievable in a manner consistent with
the policies and procedures established
under § 2.16 Security for records.
(ii) Ensure that patient identifying
information obtained under paragraph
(a) of this section is not provided to
law enforcement agencies or officials.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 85
FR 43038, July 15, 2020; 89 FR 12628, Feb. 16,
2024]
§ 2.53 Management audits, financial
audits, and program evaluation.
(a) Records not copied or removed. If
patient records are not downloaded,
copied or removed from the premises of
a part 2 program or other lawful hold-
er, or forwarded electronically to an-
other electronic system or device, pa-
tient identifying information, as de-
fined in § 2.11, may be disclosed in the
course of a review of records on the
premises of a part 2 program or other
lawful holder to any person who agrees
in writing to comply with the limita-
tions on use and redisclosure in para-
graph (f) of this section and who:
(1) Performs the audit or evaluation
on behalf of:
(i) Any federal, state, or local govern-
mental agency that provides financial
assistance to a part 2 program or other
lawful holder, or is authorized by law
to regulate the activities of the part 2
program or other lawful holder;
(ii) Any person which provides finan-
cial assistance to the part 2 program or
other lawful holder, which is a third-
party payer or health plan covering pa-
tients in the part 2 program, or which
is a quality improvement organization
(QIO) performing a QIO review, or the
contractors, subcontractors, or legal
representatives of such person or qual-
ity improvement organization; or
(iii) An entity with direct adminis-
trative control over the part 2 program
or lawful holder.
(2) Is determined by the part 2 pro-
gram or other lawful holder to be
qualified to conduct an audit or evalua-
tion of the part 2 program or other law-
ful holder.
(b) Copying, removing, downloading, or
forwarding patient records. Records con-
taining patient identifying informa-
tion, as defined in § 2.11, may be copied
or removed from the premises of a part
2 program or other lawful holder or
downloaded or forwarded to another
electronic system or device from the
part 2 program’s or other lawful hold-
er’s electronic records by any person
who:
(1) Agrees in writing to:
(i) Maintain and destroy the patient
identifying information in a manner
consistent with the policies and proce-
dures established under § 2.16;
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
33
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.53
(ii) Retain records in compliance
with applicable federal, state, and local
record retention laws; and
(iii) Comply with the limitations on
use and disclosure in paragraph (f) of
this section; and
(2) Performs the audit or evaluation
on behalf of:
(i) Any federal, state, or local govern-
mental agency that provides financial
assistance to the part 2 program or
other lawful holder, or is authorized by
law to regulate the activities of the
part 2 program or other lawful holder;
or
(ii) Any person which provides finan-
cial assistance to the part 2 program or
other lawful holder, which is a third-
party payer or health plan covering pa-
tients in the part 2 program, or which
is a quality improvement organization
performing a QIO review, or the con-
tractors, subcontractors, or legal rep-
resentatives of such person or quality
improvement organization; or
(iii) An entity with direct adminis-
trative control over the part 2 program
or lawful holder.
(c) Activities included. Audits and
evaluations under this section may in-
clude, but are not limited to:
(1) Activities undertaken by a Fed-
eral, state, or local governmental agen-
cy, or a third-party payer or health
plan, in order to:
(i) Identify actions the agency or
third-party payer or health plan can
make, such as changes to its policies or
procedures, to improve care and out-
comes for patients with substance use
disorders who are treated by part 2 pro-
grams;
(ii) Ensure that resources are man-
aged effectively to care for patients; or
(iii) Determine the need for adjust-
ments to payment policies to enhance
care or coverage for patients with SUD.
(2) Reviews of appropriateness of
medical care, medical necessity, and
utilization of services.
(d) Quality assurance entities included.
Entities conducting audits or evalua-
tions in accordance with paragraphs (a)
and (b) of this section may include ac-
creditation or similar types of organi-
zations focused on quality assurance.
(e) Medicare, Medicaid, Children’s
Health Insurance Program (CHIP), or re-
lated audit or evaluation. (1) Patient
identifying information, as defined in
§ 2.11, may be disclosed under para-
graph (e) of this section to any person
for the purpose of conducting a Medi-
care, Medicaid, or CHIP audit or eval-
uation, including an audit or evalua-
tion necessary to meet the require-
ments for a Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS)-regulated ac-
countable care organization (CMS-reg-
ulated ACO) or similar CMS-regulated
organization (including a CMS-regu-
lated Qualified Entity (QE)), if the per-
son agrees in writing to comply with
the following:
(i) Maintain and destroy the patient
identifying information in a manner
consistent with the policies and proce-
dures established under § 2.16;
(ii) Retain records in compliance
with applicable federal, state, and local
record retention laws; and
(iii) Comply with the limitations on
use and disclosure in paragraph (f) of
this section.
(2) A Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP
audit or evaluation under this section
includes a civil or administrative in-
vestigation of a part 2 program by any
federal, state, or local government
agency with oversight responsibilities
for Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP and
includes administrative enforcement,
against the part 2 program by the gov-
ernment agency, of any remedy author-
ized by law to be imposed as a result of
the findings of the investigation.
(3) An audit or evaluation necessary
to meet the requirements for a CMS-
regulated ACO or similar CMS-regu-
lated organization (including a CMS-
regulated QE) must be conducted in ac-
cordance with the following:
(i) A CMS-regulated ACO or similar
CMS-regulated organization (including
a CMS-regulated QE) must:
(A) Have in place administrative and/
or clinical systems; and
(B) Have in place a leadership and
management structure, including a
governing body and chief executive of-
ficer with responsibility for oversight
of the organization’s management and
for ensuring compliance with and ad-
herence to the terms and conditions of
the Participation Agreement or similar
documentation with CMS; and
(ii) A CMS-regulated ACO or similar
CMS-regulated organization (including
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
34
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.53
a CMS-regulated QE) must have a
signed Participation Agreement or
similar documentation with CMS,
which provides that the CMS-regulated
ACO or similar CMS-regulated organi-
zation (including a CMS-regulated QE):
(A) Is subject to periodic evaluations
by CMS or its agents, or is required by
CMS to evaluate participants in the
CMS-regulated ACO or similar CMS-
regulated organization (including a
CMS-regulated QE) relative to CMS-de-
fined or approved quality and/or cost
measures;
(B) Must designate an executive who
has the authority to legally bind the
organization to ensure compliance with
42 U.S.C. 290dd-2 and this part and the
terms and conditions of the Participa-
tion Agreement in order to receive pa-
tient identifying information from
CMS or its agents;
(C) Agrees to comply with all appli-
cable provisions of 42 U.S.C. 290dd-2 and
this part;
(D) Must ensure that any audit or
evaluation involving patient identi-
fying information occurs in a confiden-
tial and controlled setting approved by
the designated executive;
(E) Must ensure that any commu-
nications or reports or other docu-
ments resulting from an audit or eval-
uation under this section do not allow
for the direct or indirect identification
(e.g., through the use of codes) of a pa-
tient as having or having had a sub-
stance use disorder; and
(F) Must establish policies and proce-
dures to protect the confidentiality of
the patient identifying information
consistent with this part, the terms
and conditions of the Participation
Agreement, and the requirements set
forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(4) Program, as defined in § 2.11, in-
cludes an employee of, or provider of
medical services under the program
when the employee or provider is the
subject of a civil investigation or ad-
ministrative remedy, as those terms
are used in paragraph (e)(2) of this sec-
tion.
(5) If a disclosure to a person is au-
thorized under this section for a Medi-
care, Medicaid, or CHIP audit or eval-
uation, including a civil investigation
or administrative remedy, as those
terms are used in paragraph (e)(2) of
this section, the person may further
use or disclose the patient identifying
information that is received for such
purposes to its contractor(s), subcon-
tractor(s), or legal representative(s), to
carry out the audit or evaluation, and
a quality improvement organization
which obtains such information under
paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may
use or disclose the information to that
person (or, to such person’s contrac-
tors, subcontractors, or legal rep-
resentatives, but only for the purposes
of this section).
(6) The provisions of this paragraph
(e) do not authorize the part 2 program,
the Federal, state, or local government
agency, or any other person to use or
disclose patient identifying informa-
tion obtained during the audit or eval-
uation for any purposes other than
those necessary to complete the audit
or evaluation as specified in this para-
graph (e).
(f) Limitations on use and disclosure.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of
this section, patient identifying infor-
mation disclosed under this section
may be disclosed only back to the part
2 program or other lawful holder from
which it was obtained and may be used
only to carry out an audit or evalua-
tion purpose or to investigate or pros-
ecute criminal or other activities, as
authorized by a court order entered
under § 2.66.
(g) Audits and evaluations mandated by
statute or regulation. Patient identi-
fying information may be disclosed to
federal, state, or local government
agencies, and the contractors, sub-
contractors, and legal representatives
of such agencies, in the course of con-
ducting audits or evaluations man-
dated by statute or regulation, if those
audits or evaluations cannot be carried
out using deidentified information.
(h) Disclosures for health care oper-
ations. With respect to activities de-
scribed in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this
section, a part 2 program, covered enti-
ty, or business associate may disclose
records in accordance with a consent
that includes health care operations,
and the recipient may redisclose such
records as permitted under the HIPAA
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
35
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.63
regulations if the recipient is a covered
entity or business associate.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 83
FR 252, Jan. 3, 2018; 85 FR 43039, July 15, 2020;
89 FR 12628, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.54 Disclosures for public health.
A part 2 program may disclose
records for public health purposes
without patient consent so long as:
(a) The disclosure is made to a public
health authority as defined in this
part; and
(b) The content of the information
from the record disclosed has been de-
identified in accordance with the re-
quirements of 45 CFR 164.514(b) such
that there is no reasonable basis to be-
lieve that the information can be used
to identify a patient.
[89 FR 12629, Feb. 16, 2024]
Subpart E—Court Orders
Authorizing Use and Disclosure
§ 2.61 Legal effect of order.
(a) Effect. An order of a court of com-
petent jurisdiction entered under this
subpart is a unique kind of court order.
Its only purpose is to authorize a use or
disclosure of patient information which
would otherwise be prohibited by 42
U.S.C. 290dd–2 and the regulations in
this part. Such an order does not com-
pel use or disclosure. A subpoena or a
similar legal mandate must be issued
to compel use or disclosure. This man-
date may be entered at the same time
as and accompany an authorizing court
order entered under the regulations in
this part.
(b) Examples. (1) A person holding
records subject to the regulations in
this part receives a subpoena for those
records. The person may not use or dis-
close the records in response to the
subpoena unless a court of competent
jurisdiction enters an authorizing
order under the regulations in this
part.
(2) An authorizing court order is en-
tered under the regulations in this
part, but the person holding the
records does not want to make the use
or disclosure. If there is no subpoena or
other compulsory process or a sub-
poena for the records has expired or
been quashed, that person may refuse
to make the use or disclosure. Upon
the entry of a valid subpoena or other
compulsory process the person holding
the records must use or disclose, unless
there is a valid legal defense to the
process other than the confidentiality
restrictions of the regulations in this
part.
[89 FR 12629, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.62 Order not applicable to records
disclosed without consent to re-
searchers, auditors, and evaluators.
A court order under the regulations
in this part may not authorize persons
who meet the criteria specified in
§§ 2.52(a)(1)(i) through (iii) and 2.53, who
have received patient identifying infor-
mation without consent for the pur-
pose of conducting research, audit, or
evaluation, to disclose that informa-
tion or use it to conduct any criminal
investigation or prosecution of a pa-
tient. However, a court order under
§ 2.66 may authorize use and disclosure
of records to investigate or prosecute
such persons who are holding the
records.
[89 FR 12629, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.63 Confidential communications.
(a) A court order under the regula-
tions in this part may authorize disclo-
sure of confidential communications
made by a patient to a part 2 program
in the course of diagnosis, treatment,
or referral for treatment only if:
(1) The disclosure is necessary to pro-
tect against an existing threat to life
or of serious bodily injury, including
circumstances which constitute sus-
pected child abuse and neglect and
verbal threats against third parties;
(2) The disclosure is necessary in con-
nection with investigation or prosecu-
tion of an extremely serious crime,
such as one which directly threatens
loss of life or serious bodily injury, in-
cluding homicide, rape, kidnapping,
armed robbery, assault with a deadly
weapon, or child abuse and neglect; or
(3) The disclosure is in connection
with a civil, criminal, administrative,
or legislative proceeding in which the
patient offers testimony or other evi-
dence pertaining to the content of the
confidential communications.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
36
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.64
(b) [Reserved]
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 85
FR 80632, Dec. 14, 2020; 89 FR 12629, Feb. 16,
2024]
§ 2.64 Procedures and criteria for or-
ders authorizing uses and disclo-
sures for noncriminal purposes.
(a) Application. An order authorizing
the use or disclosure of patient records
or testimony relaying the information
contained in the records for purposes
other than criminal investigation or
prosecution may be applied for by any
person having a legally recognized in-
terest in the use or disclosure which is
sought in the course of a civil, adminis-
trative, or legislative proceeding. The
application may be filed separately or
as part of a pending civil action in
which the applicant asserts that the
patient records or testimony relaying
the information contained in the
records are needed to provide evidence.
An application must use a fictitious
name, such as John Doe, to refer to any
patient and may not contain or other-
wise disclose any patient identifying
information unless the patient is the
applicant or has given written consent
(meeting the requirements of the regu-
lations in this part) to disclosure or
the court has ordered the record of the
proceeding sealed from public scrutiny.
(b) Notice. A court order under this
section is only valid when the patient
and the person holding the records
from whom disclosure is sought have
received:
(1) Adequate notice in a manner
which does not disclose patient identi-
fying information to other persons; and
(2) An opportunity to file a written
response to the application, or to ap-
pear in person, for the limited purpose
of providing evidence on the statutory
and regulatory criteria for the issuance
of the court order as described in
§ 2.64(d).
(c) Review of evidence: Conduct of
hearing. Any oral argument, review of
evidence, or hearing on the application
must be held in the judge’s chambers
or in some manner which ensures that
patient identifying information is not
disclosed to anyone other than a party
to the proceeding, the patient, or the
person holding the record, unless the
patient requests an open hearing in a
manner which meets the written con-
sent requirements of the regulations in
this part. The proceeding may include
an examination by the judge of the pa-
tient records referred to in the applica-
tion.
(d) Criteria for entry of order. An order
under this section may be entered only
if the court determines that good cause
exists. To make this determination the
court must find that:
(1) Other ways of obtaining the infor-
mation are not available or would not
be effective; and
(2) The public interest and need for
the use or disclosure outweigh the po-
tential injury to the patient, the physi-
cian-patient relationship and the treat-
ment services.
(e) Content of order. An order author-
izing a use or disclosure must:
(1) Limit use or disclosure to only
those parts of the patient’s record, or
testimony relaying those parts of the
patient’s record, which are essential to
fulfill the objective of the order;
(2) Limit use or disclosure to those
persons whose need for information is
the basis for the order; and
(3) Include such other measures as
are necessary to limit use or disclosure
for the protection of the patient, the
physician-patient relationship and the
treatment services; for example, seal-
ing from public scrutiny the record of
any proceeding for which use or disclo-
sure of a patient’s record, or testimony
relaying the contents of the record, has
been ordered.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 89
FR 12629, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.65 Procedures and criteria for or-
ders authorizing use and disclosure
of records to criminally investigate
or prosecute patients.
(a) Application. An order authorizing
the use or disclosure of patient records,
or testimony relaying the information
contained in those records, to inves-
tigate or prosecute a patient in connec-
tion with a criminal proceeding may be
applied for by the person holding the
records or by any law enforcement or
prosecutorial official who is respon-
sible for conducting investigative or
prosecutorial activities with respect to
the enforcement of criminal laws, in-
cluding administrative and legislative
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
37
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.65
criminal proceedings. The application
may be filed separately, as part of an
application for a subpoena or other
compulsory process, or in a pending
criminal action. An application must
use a fictitious name such as John Doe,
to refer to any patient and may not
contain or otherwise use or disclose pa-
tient identifying information unless
the court has ordered the record of the
proceeding sealed from public scrutiny.
(b) Notice and hearing. Unless an
order under § 2.66 is sought in addition
to an order under this section, an order
under this section is valid only when
the person holding the records has re-
ceived:
(1) Adequate notice (in a manner
which will not disclose patient identi-
fying information to other persons) of
an application by a law enforcement
agency or official;
(2) An opportunity to appear and be
heard for the limited purpose of pro-
viding evidence on the statutory and
regulatory criteria for the issuance of
the court order as described in § 2.65(d);
and
(3) An opportunity to be represented
by counsel independent of counsel for
an applicant who is a law enforcement
agency or official.
(c) Review of evidence: Conduct of
hearings. Any oral argument, review of
evidence, or hearing on the application
shall be held in the judge’s chambers or
in some other manner which ensures
that patient identifying information is
not disclosed to anyone other than a
party to the proceedings, the patient,
or the person holding the records. The
proceeding may include an examina-
tion by the judge of the patient records
referred to in the application.
(d) Criteria. A court may authorize
the use and disclosure of patient
records, or testimony relaying the in-
formation contained in those records,
for the purpose of conducting a crimi-
nal investigation or prosecution of a
patient only if the court finds that all
of the following criteria are met:
(1) The crime involved is extremely
serious, such as one which causes or di-
rectly threatens loss of life or serious
bodily injury including homicide, rape,
kidnapping, armed robbery, assault
with a deadly weapon, and child abuse
and neglect.
(2) There is a reasonable likelihood
that the records or testimony will dis-
close information of substantial value
in the investigation or prosecution.
(3) Other ways of obtaining the infor-
mation are not available or would not
be effective.
(4) The potential injury to the pa-
tient, to the physician-patient rela-
tionship and to the ability of the part
2 program to provide services to other
patients is outweighed by the public in-
terest and the need for the disclosure.
(5) If the applicant is a law enforce-
ment agency or official, that:
(i) The person holding the records has
been afforded the opportunity to be
represented by independent counsel;
and
(ii) Any person holding the records
which is an entity within federal,
state, or local government has in fact
been represented by counsel inde-
pendent of the applicant.
(e) Content of order. Any order au-
thorizing a use or disclosure of patient
records subject to this part, or testi-
mony relaying the information con-
tained in those records, under this sec-
tion must:
(1) Limit use and disclosure to those
parts of the patient’s record, or testi-
mony relaying the information con-
tained in those records, which are es-
sential to fulfill the objective of the
order;
(2) Limit disclosure to those law en-
forcement and prosecutorial officials
who are responsible for, or are con-
ducting, the investigation or prosecu-
tion, and limit their use of the records
or testimony to investigation and pros-
ecution of the extremely serious crime
or suspected crime specified in the ap-
plication; and
(3) Include such other measures as
are necessary to limit use and disclo-
sure to the fulfillment of only that
public interest and need found by the
court.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 89
FR 12629, Feb. 16, 2024]
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
38
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.66
§ 2.66 Procedures and criteria for or-
ders authorizing use and disclosure
of records to investigate or pros-
ecute a part 2 program or the per-
son holding the records.
(a) Application. (1) An order author-
izing the use or disclosure of patient
records subject to this part to inves-
tigate or prosecute a part 2 program or
the person holding the records (or em-
ployees or agents of that part 2 pro-
gram or person holding the records) in
connection with a criminal or adminis-
trative matter may be applied for by
any investigative agency having juris-
diction over the program’s or person’s
activities.
(2) The application may be filed sepa-
rately or as part of a pending civil or
criminal action against a part 2 pro-
gram or the person holding the records
(or agents or employees of the part 2
program or person holding the records)
in which the applicant asserts that the
patient records are needed to provide
material evidence. The application
must use a fictitious name, such as
John Doe, to refer to any patient and
may not contain or otherwise disclose
any patient identifying information
unless the court has ordered the record
of the proceeding sealed from public
scrutiny or the patient has provided
written consent (meeting the require-
ments of § 2.31) to that disclosure.
(3) Upon discovering in good faith
that it received records under this part
in the course of investigating or pros-
ecuting a part 2 program or the person
holding the records (or employees or
agents of that part 2 program or person
holding the records), an investigative
agency must do the following:
(i) Secure the records in accordance
with § 2.16; and
(ii) Immediately cease using and dis-
closing the records until the investiga-
tive agency obtains a court order con-
sistent with paragraph (c) of this sec-
tion authorizing the use and disclosure
of the records and any records later ob-
tained. The application for the court
order must occur within a reasonable
period of time, but not more than 120
days after discovering it received
records under this part; or
(iii) If the agency does not seek a
court order in accordance with para-
graph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, the
agency must either return the records
to the part 2 program or person holding
the records, if it is legally permissible
to do so, within a reasonable period of
time, but not more than 120 days after
discovering it received records under
this part; or
(iv) If the agency does not seek a
court order or return the records, the
agency must destroy the records in a
manner that renders the patient identi-
fying information non-retrievable,
within a reasonable period of time, but
not more than 120 days after discov-
ering it received records under this
part.
(v) If the agency’s application for a
court order is rejected by the court and
no longer subject to appeal, the agency
must return the records to the part 2
program or person holding the records,
if it is legally permissible to do so, or
destroy the records immediately after
notice from the court.
(b) Notice not required. An application
under this section may, in the discre-
tion of the court, be granted without
notice. Although no express notice is
required to the part 2 program, to the
person holding the records, or to any
patient whose records are to be dis-
closed, upon implementation of an
order so granted any of those persons
must be afforded an opportunity to
seek revocation or amendment of that
order, limited to the presentation of
evidence on the statutory and regu-
latory criteria for the issuance of the
court order in accordance with para-
graph (c) of this section. If a court
finds that individualized contact is im-
practical under the circumstances, pa-
tients may be informed of the oppor-
tunity through a substitute form of no-
tice that the court determines is rea-
sonably calculated to reach the pa-
tients, such as conspicuous notice in
major print or broadcast media in geo-
graphic areas where the affected pa-
tients likely reside.
(c) Requirements for order. An order
under this section must be entered in
accordance with, and comply with the
requirements of § 2.64(e). In addition, an
order under this section may be en-
tered only if the court determines that
good cause exists. To make such good
cause determination, the court must
find that:
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
39
Public Health Service, HHS § 2.67
(1) Other ways of obtaining the infor-
mation are not available, would not be
effective, or would yield incomplete in-
formation;
(2) The public interest and need for
the use or disclosure outweigh the po-
tential injury to the patient, the physi-
cian-patient relationship, and the
treatment services; and
(3) For an application being sub-
mitted pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(ii)
of this section, the investigative agen-
cy has satisfied the conditions at
§ 2.3(b). Information from records ob-
tained in violation of this part, includ-
ing § 2.12(d), cannot be used in an appli-
cation for a court order to obtain such
records.
(d) Limitations on use and disclosure of
patient identifying information. (1) An
order entered under this section must
require the deletion or removal of pa-
tient identifying information from any
documents or oral testimony made
available to the public.
(2) No information obtained under
this section may be used or disclosed to
conduct any investigation or prosecu-
tion of a patient in connection with a
criminal matter, or be used or dis-
closed as the basis for an application
for an order under § 2.65.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 89
FR 12630, Feb. 16, 2024]
§ 2.67 Orders authorizing the use of
undercover agents and informants
to investigate employees or agents
of a part 2 program in connection
with a criminal matter.
(a) Application. A court order author-
izing the placement of an undercover
agent or informant in a part 2 program
as an employee or patient may be ap-
plied for by any investigative agency
which has reason to believe that em-
ployees or agents of the part 2 program
are engaged in criminal misconduct.
(b) Notice. The part 2 program direc-
tor must be given adequate notice of
the application and an opportunity to
appear and be heard (for the limited
purpose of providing evidence on the
statutory and regulatory criteria for
the issuance of the court order in ac-
cordance with § 2.67(c)), unless the ap-
plication asserts that:
(1) The part 2 program director is in-
volved in the suspected criminal activi-
ties to be investigated by the under-
cover agent or informant; or
(2) The part 2 program director will
intentionally or unintentionally dis-
close the proposed placement of an un-
dercover agent or informant to the em-
ployees or agents of the program who
are suspected of criminal activities.
(c) Criteria. An order under this sec-
tion may be entered only if the court
determines that good cause exists. To
make such good cause determination,
the court must find all of the fol-
lowing:
(1) There is reason to believe that an
employee or agent of the part 2 pro-
gram is engaged in criminal activity;
(2) Other ways of obtaining evidence
of the suspected criminal activity are
not available, would not be effective,
or would yield incomplete evidence;
(3) The public interest and need for
the placement of an undercover agent
or informant in the part 2 program out-
weigh the potential injury to patients
of the part 2 program, physician-pa-
tient relationships, and the treatment
services; and
(4) For an application submitted
after the placement of an undercover
agent or informant has already oc-
curred, that the investigative agency
has satisfied the conditions at § 2.3(b)
and only discovered that a court order
was necessary after such placement oc-
curred. Information from records ob-
tained in violation of this part, includ-
ing § 2.12(d), cannot be used in an appli-
cation for a court order to obtain such
records.
(d) Content of order. An order author-
izing the placement of an undercover
agent or informant in a part 2 program
must:
(1) Specifically authorize the place-
ment of an undercover agent or an in-
formant;
(2) Limit the total period of the
placement to twelve months, starting
on the date that the undercover agent
or informant is placed on site within
the program. The placement of an un-
dercover agent or informant must end
after 12 months, unless a new court
order is issued to extend the period of
placement;
(3) Prohibit the undercover agent or
informant from using or disclosing any
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
40
42 CFR Ch. I (10–1–25 Edition)
§ 2.68
patient identifying information ob-
tained from the placement except as
necessary to investigate or prosecute
employees or agents of the part 2 pro-
gram in connection with the suspected
criminal activity; and
(4) Include any other measures which
are appropriate to limit any potential
disruption of the part 2 program by the
placement and any potential for a real
or apparent breach of patient confiden-
tiality; for example, sealing from pub-
lic scrutiny the record of any pro-
ceeding for which disclosure of a pa-
tient’s record has been ordered.
(e) Limitation on use and disclosure of
information. No information obtained
by an undercover agent or informant
placed in a part 2 program under this
section may be used or disclosed to in-
vestigate or prosecute any patient in
connection with a criminal matter or
as the basis for an application for an
order under § 2.65.
[82 FR 6115, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 85
FR 43039, July 15, 2020; 89 FR 12631, Feb. 16,
2024]
§ 2.68 Report to the Secretary.
(a) Any investigative agency covered
by this part shall report to the Sec-
retary, not later than 60 days after the
end of each calendar year, to the ex-
tent applicable and practicable, on:
(1) The number of applications made
under §§ 2.66(a)(3)(ii) and 2.67(c)(4) dur-
ing the calendar year;
(2) The number of instances in which
such applications were denied, due to
findings by the court of violations of
this part during the calendar year; and
(3) The number of instances in which
records under this part were returned
or destroyed following unknowing re-
ceipt without a court order, in compli-
ance with § 2.66(a)(3)(iii), (iv), or (v), re-
spectively during the calendar year.
(b) [Reserved]
[89 FR 12631, Feb. 16, 2024]
PART 2a—PROTECTION OF
IDENTITY—RESEARCH SUBJECTS
Sec.
2a.1 Applicability.
2a.2 Definitions.
2a.3 Application; coordination.
2a.4 Contents of application; in general.
2a.5 Contents of application; research
projects in which drugs will be adminis-
tered.
2a.6 Issuance of Confidentiality Certifi-
cates; single project limitation.
2a.7 Effect of Confidentiality Certificate.
2a.8 Termination.
AUTHORITY: Sec. 3(a), Pub. L. 91–513 as
amended by sec. 122(b), Pub. L. 93–282; 84
Stat. 1241 (42 U.S.C. 242a(a)), as amended by
88 Stat. 132.
SOURCE: 44 FR 20384, Apr. 4, 1979, unless
otherwise noted.
§ 2a.1 Applicability.
(a) Section 303(a) of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 242a(a))
provides that ‘‘[t]he Secretary [of
Health and Human Services] may au-
thorize persons engaged in research on
mental health, including research on
the use and effect of alcohol and other
psychoactive drugs, to protect the pri-
vacy of individuals who are the subject
of such research by withholding from
all persons not connected with the con-
duct of such research the names or
other identifying characteristics of
such individuals. Persons so authorized
to protect the privacy of such individ-
uals may not be compelled in any Fed-
eral, State, or local civil, criminal, ad-
ministrative, legislative, or other pro-
ceedings to identify such individuals.’’
The regulations in this part establish
procedures under which any person en-
gaged in research on mental health in-
cluding research on the use and effect
of alcohol and other psychoactive
drugs (whether or not the research is
federally funded) may, subject to the
exceptions set forth in paragraph (b) of
this section, apply for such an author-
ization of confidentiality.
(b) These regulations do not apply to:
(1) Authorizations of confidentiality
for research requiring an Investiga-
tional New Drug exemption under sec-
tion 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or to
approved new drugs, such as metha-
done, requiring continuation of long-
term studies, records, and reports. At-
tention is called to 21 CFR 291.505(g) re-
lating to authorizations of confiden-
tiality for patient records maintained
by methadone treatment programs.
(2) Authorizations of confidentiality
for research which are related to law
enforcement activities or otherwise
VerDate Sep<11>2014 15:05 Jun 05, 2026 Jkt 265195 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\265195.XXX 265195
skersey
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
