467
Federal Trade Commission § 314.2
(ii) If it shares with nonaffiliated third par-
ties, state, as applicable: ‘‘Nonaffiliates we
share with can include [list categories of compa-
nies such as mortgage companies, insurance
companies, direct marketing companies, and
nonprofit organizations].’’
(3) Joint Marketing. As required by § 313.13
of this part, where [joint marketing] appears,
the financial institution must:
(i) If it does not engage in joint marketing,
state: ‘‘[name of financial institution] doesn’t
jointly market’’; or
(ii) If it shares personal information for
joint marketing, state, as applicable: ‘‘Our
joint marketing partners include [list categories
of companies such as credit card companies].’’
(c) General instructions for the ‘‘Other impor-
tant information’’ box. This box is optional.
The space provided for information in this
box is not limited. Only the following types
of information can appear in this box.
(1) State and/or international privacy law
information; and/or
(2) Acknowledgment of receipt form.
[74 FR 62966, Dec. 1, 2009]
PART 314—STANDARDS FOR SAFE-
GUARDING CUSTOMER INFOR-
MATION
Sec.
314.1 Purpose and scope.
314.2 Definitions.
314.3 Standards for safeguarding customer
information.
314.4 Elements.
314.5 Effective date.
314.6 Exceptions.
AUTHORITY: 15 U.S.C. 6801(b), 6805(b)(2).
SOURCE: 67 FR 36493, May 23, 2002, unless
otherwise noted.
§ 314.1 Purpose and scope.
(a) Purpose. This part, which imple-
ments sections 501 and 505(b)(2) of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, sets forth
standards for developing, imple-
menting, and maintaining reasonable
administrative, technical, and physical
safeguards to protect the security, con-
fidentiality, and integrity of customer
information.
(b) Scope. This part applies to the
handling of customer information by
all financial institutions over which
the Federal Trade Commission (‘‘FTC’’
or ‘‘Commission’’) has jurisdiction.
Namely, this part applies to those ‘‘fi-
nancial institutions’’ over which the
Commission has rulemaking authority
pursuant to section 501(b) of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. An entity is
a ‘‘financial institution’’ if its business
is engaging in an activity that is finan-
cial in nature or incidental to such fi-
nancial activities as described in sec-
tion 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company
Act of 1956, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k), which in-
corporates activities enumerated by
the Federal Reserve Board in 12 CFR
225.28 and 225.86. The ‘‘financial institu-
tions’’ subject to the Commission’s en-
forcement authority are those that are
not otherwise subject to the enforce-
ment authority of another regulator
under section 505 of the Gramm-Leach-
Bliley Act, 15 U.S.C. 6805. More specifi-
cally, those entities include, but are
not limited to, mortgage lenders, ‘‘pay
day’’ lenders, finance companies, mort-
gage brokers, account servicers, check
cashers, wire transferors, travel agen-
cies operated in connection with finan-
cial services, collection agencies, cred-
it counselors and other financial advi-
sors, tax preparation firms, non-feder-
ally insured credit unions, investment
advisors that are not required to reg-
ister with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and entities acting as
finders. They are referred to in this
part as ‘‘You.’’ This part applies to all
customer information in your posses-
sion, regardless of whether such infor-
mation pertains to individuals with
whom you have a customer relation-
ship, or pertains to the customers of
other financial institutions that have
provided such information to you.
[67 FR 36493, May 23, 2002, as amended at 86
FR 70304, Dec. 9, 2021]
§ 314.2 Definitions.
(a) Authorized user means any em-
ployee, contractor, agent, customer, or
other person that is authorized to ac-
cess any of your information systems
or data.
(b)(1) Consumer means an individual
who obtains or has obtained a financial
product or service from you that is to
be used primarily for personal, family,
or household purposes, or that individ-
ual’s legal representative.
(2) For example:
(i) An individual who applies to you
for credit for personal, family, or
household purposes is a consumer of a
financial service, regardless of whether
the credit is extended.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00477 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
468
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 314.2
(ii) An individual who provides non-
public personal information to you in
order to obtain a determination about
whether he or she may qualify for a
loan to be used primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes is a con-
sumer of a financial service, regardless
of whether the loan is extended.
(iii) An individual who provides non-
public personal information to you in
connection with obtaining or seeking
to obtain financial, investment, or eco-
nomic advisory services is a consumer,
regardless of whether you establish a
continuing advisory relationship.
(iv) If you hold ownership or serv-
icing rights to an individual’s loan that
is used primarily for personal, family,
or household purposes, the individual is
your consumer, even if you hold those
rights in conjunction with one or more
other institutions. (The individual is
also a consumer with respect to the
other financial institutions involved.)
An individual who has a loan in which
you have ownership or servicing rights
is your consumer, even if you, or an-
other institution with those rights,
hire an agent to collect on the loan.
(v) An individual who is a consumer
of another financial institution is not
your consumer solely because you act
as agent for, or provide processing or
other services to, that financial insti-
tution.
(vi) An individual is not your con-
sumer solely because he or she has des-
ignated you as trustee for a trust.
(vii) An individual is not your con-
sumer solely because he or she is a ben-
eficiary of a trust for which you are a
trustee.
(viii) An individual is not your con-
sumer solely because he or she is a par-
ticipant or a beneficiary of an em-
ployee benefit plan that you sponsor or
for which you act as a trustee or fidu-
ciary.
(c) Customer means a consumer who
has a customer relationship with you.
(d) Customer information means any
record containing nonpublic personal
information about a customer of a fi-
nancial institution, whether in paper,
electronic, or other form, that is han-
dled or maintained by or on behalf of
you or your affiliates.
(e)(1) Customer relationship means a
continuing relationship between a con-
sumer and you under which you pro-
vide one or more financial products or
services to the consumer that are to be
used primarily for personal, family, or
household purposes.
(2) For example:
(i) Continuing relationship. A con-
sumer has a continuing relationship
with you if the consumer:
(A) Has a credit or investment ac-
count with you;
(B) Obtains a loan from you;
(C) Purchases an insurance product
from you;
(D) Holds an investment product
through you, such as when you act as a
custodian for securities or for assets in
an Individual Retirement Arrange-
ment;
(E) Enters into an agreement or un-
derstanding with you whereby you un-
dertake to arrange or broker a home
mortgage loan, or credit to purchase a
vehicle, for the consumer;
(F) Enters into a lease of personal
property on a non-operating basis with
you;
(G) Obtains financial, investment, or
economic advisory services from you
for a fee;
(H) Becomes your client for the pur-
pose of obtaining tax preparation or
credit counseling services from you;
(I) Obtains career counseling while
seeking employment with a financial
institution or the finance, accounting,
or audit department of any company
(or while employed by such a financial
institution or department of any com-
pany);
(J) Is obligated on an account that
you purchase from another financial
institution, regardless of whether the
account is in default when purchased,
unless you do not locate the consumer
or attempt to collect any amount from
the consumer on the account;
(K) Obtains real estate settlement
services from you; or
(L) Has a loan for which you own the
servicing rights.
(ii) No continuing relationship. A con-
sumer does not, however, have a con-
tinuing relationship with you if:
(A) The consumer obtains a financial
product or service from you only in iso-
lated transactions, such as using your
ATM to withdraw cash from an ac-
count at another financial institution;
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00478 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
469
Federal Trade Commission § 314.2
purchasing a money order from you;
cashing a check with you; or making a
wire transfer through you;
(B) You sell the consumer’s loan and
do not retain the rights to service that
loan;
(C) You sell the consumer airline
tickets, travel insurance, or traveler’s
checks in isolated transactions;
(D) The consumer obtains one-time
personal or real property appraisal
services from you; or
(E) The consumer purchases checks
for a personal checking account from
you.
(f) Encryption means the trans-
formation of data into a form that re-
sults in a low probability of assigning
meaning without the use of a protec-
tive process or key, consistent with
current cryptographic standards and
accompanied by appropriate safeguards
for cryptographic key material.
(g)(1) Financial product or service
means any product or service that a fi-
nancial holding company could offer by
engaging in a financial activity under
section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)).
(2) Financial service includes your
evaluation or brokerage of information
that you collect in connection with a
request or an application from a con-
sumer for a financial product or serv-
ice.
(h)(1) Financial institution means any
institution the business of which is en-
gaging in an activity that is financial
in nature or incidental to such finan-
cial activities as described in section
4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act
of 1956, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k). An institution
that is significantly engaged in finan-
cial activities, or significantly engaged
in activities incidental to such finan-
cial activities, is a financial institu-
tion.
(2) Examples of financial institutions
are as follows:
(i) A retailer that extends credit by
issuing its own credit card directly to
consumers is a financial institution be-
cause extending credit is a financial
activity listed in 12 CFR 225.28(b)(1)
and referenced in section 4(k)(4)(F) of
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956
(12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(F)), and issuing
that extension of credit through a pro-
prietary credit card demonstrates that
a retailer is significantly engaged in
extending credit.
(ii) An automobile dealership that, as
a usual part of its business, leases
automobiles on a nonoperating basis
for longer than 90 days is a financial
institution with respect to its leasing
business because leasing personal prop-
erty on a nonoperating basis where the
initial term of the lease is at least 90
days is a financial activity listed in 12
CFR 225.28(b)(3) and referenced in sec-
tion 4(k)(4)(F) of the Bank Holding
Company Act, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(F).
(iii) A personal property or real es-
tate appraiser is a financial institution
because real and personal property ap-
praisal is a financial activity listed in
12 CFR 225.28(b)(2)(i) and referenced in
section 4(k)(4)(F) of the Bank Holding
Company Act, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(F).
(iv) A career counselor that special-
izes in providing career counseling
services to individuals currently em-
ployed by or recently displaced from a
financial organization, individuals who
are seeking employment with a finan-
cial organization, or individuals who
are currently employed by or seeking
placement with the finance, account-
ing or audit departments of any com-
pany is a financial institution because
such career counseling activities are fi-
nancial activities listed in 12 CFR
225.28(b)(9)(iii) and referenced in sec-
tion 4(k)(4)(F) of the Bank Holding
Company Act, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(F).
(v) A business that prints and sells
checks for consumers, either as its sole
business or as one of its product lines,
is a financial institution because print-
ing and selling checks is a financial ac-
tivity that is listed in 12 CFR
225.28(b)(10)(ii) and referenced in sec-
tion 4(k)(4)(F) of the Bank Holding
Company Act, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(F).
(vi) A business that regularly wires
money to and from consumers is a fi-
nancial institution because transfer-
ring money is a financial activity ref-
erenced in section 4(k)(4)(A) of the
Bank Holding Company Act, 12 U.S.C.
1843(k)(4)(A), and regularly providing
that service demonstrates that the
business is significantly engaged in
that activity.
(vii) A check cashing business is a fi-
nancial institution because cashing a
check is exchanging money, which is a
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00479 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
470
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 314.2
financial activity listed in section
4(k)(4)(A) of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(A).
(viii) An accountant or other tax
preparation service that is in the busi-
ness of completing income tax returns
is a financial institution because tax
preparation services is a financial ac-
tivity listed in 12 CFR 225.28(b)(6)(vi)
and referenced in section 4(k)(4)(G) of
the Bank Holding Company Act, 12
U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(G).
(ix) A business that operates a travel
agency in connection with financial
services is a financial institution be-
cause operating a travel agency in con-
nection with financial services is a fi-
nancial activity listed in 12 CFR
225.86(b)(2) and referenced in section
4(k)(4)(G) of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(G).
(x) An entity that provides real es-
tate settlement services is a financial
institution because providing real es-
tate settlement services is a financial
activity listed in 12 CFR
225.28(b)(2)(viii) and referenced in sec-
tion 4(k)(4)(F) of the Bank Holding
Company Act, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(F).
(xi) A mortgage broker is a financial
institution because brokering loans is
a financial activity listed in 12 CFR
225.28(b)(1) and referenced in section
4(k)(4)(F) of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(F).
(xii) An investment advisory com-
pany and a credit counseling service
are each financial institutions because
providing financial and investment ad-
visory services are financial activities
referenced in section 4(k)(4)(C) of the
Bank Holding Company Act, 12 U.S.C.
1843(k)(4)(C).
(xiii) A company acting as a finder in
bringing together one or more buyers
and sellers of any product or service for
transactions that the parties them-
selves negotiate and consummate is a
financial institution because acting as
a finder is an activity that is financial
in nature or incidental to a financial
activity listed in 12 CFR 225.86(d)(1).
(3) Financial institution does not in-
clude:
(i) Any person or entity with respect
to any financial activity that is subject
to the jurisdiction of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission under the
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et
seq.);
(ii) The Federal Agricultural Mort-
gage Corporation or any entity char-
tered and operating under the Farm
Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.);
(iii) Institutions chartered by Con-
gress specifically to engage in
securitizations, secondary market sales
(including sales of servicing rights) or
similar transactions related to a trans-
action of a consumer, as long as such
institutions do not sell or transfer non-
public personal information to a non-
affiliated third party other than as per-
mitted by §§ 313.14 and 313.15; or
(iv) Entities that engage in financial
activities but that are not significantly
engaged in those financial activities,
and entities that engage in activities
incidental to financial activities but
that are not significantly engaged in
activities incidental to financial ac-
tivities.
(4) Examples of entities that are not
significantly engaged in financial ac-
tivities are as follows:
(i) A retailer is not a financial insti-
tution if its only means of extending
credit are occasional ‘‘lay away’’ and
deferred payment plans or accepting
payment by means of credit cards
issued by others.
(ii) A retailer is not a financial insti-
tution merely because it accepts pay-
ment in the form of cash, checks, or
credit cards that it did not issue.
(iii) A merchant is not a financial in-
stitution merely because it allows an
individual to ‘‘run a tab.’’
(iv) A grocery store is not a financial
institution merely because it allows in-
dividuals to whom it sells groceries to
cash a check, or write a check for a
higher amount than the grocery pur-
chase and obtain cash in return.
(i) Information security program means
the administrative, technical, or phys-
ical safeguards you use to access, col-
lect, distribute, process, protect, store,
use, transmit, dispose of, or otherwise
handle customer information.
(j) Information system means a dis-
crete set of electronic information re-
sources organized for the collection,
processing, maintenance, use, sharing,
dissemination or disposition of elec-
tronic information containing cus-
tomer information or connected to a
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00480 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
471
Federal Trade Commission § 314.2
system containing customer informa-
tion, as well as any specialized system
such as industrial/process controls sys-
tems, telephone switching and private
branch exchange systems, and environ-
mental controls systems that contains
customer information or that is con-
nected to a system that contains cus-
tomer information.
(k) Multi-factor authentication means
authentication through verification of
at least two of the following types of
authentication factors:
(1) Knowledge factors, such as a pass-
word;
(2) Possession factors, such as a
token; or
(3) Inherence factors, such as biomet-
ric characteristics.
(l)(1) Nonpublic personal information
means:
(i) Personally identifiable financial
information; and
(ii) Any list, description, or other
grouping of consumers (and publicly
available information pertaining to
them) that is derived using any person-
ally identifiable financial information
that is not publicly available.
(2) Nonpublic personal information does
not include:
(i) Publicly available information,
except as included on a list described in
paragraph (l)(1)(ii) of this section; or
(ii) Any list, description, or other
grouping of consumers (and publicly
available information pertaining to
them) that is derived without using
any personally identifiable financial
information that is not publicly avail-
able.
(3) For example:
(i) Nonpublic personal information
includes any list of individuals’ names
and street addresses that is derived in
whole or in part using personally iden-
tifiable financial information (that is
not publicly available), such as account
numbers.
(ii) Nonpublic personal information
does not include any list of individuals’
names and addresses that contains
only publicly available information, is
not derived, in whole or in part, using
personally identifiable financial infor-
mation that is not publicly available,
and is not disclosed in a manner that
indicates that any of the individuals on
the list is a consumer of a financial in-
stitution.
(m) Notification event means acquisi-
tion of unencrypted customer informa-
tion without the authorization of the
individual to which the information
pertains. Customer information is con-
sidered unencrypted for this purpose if
the encryption key was accessed by an
unauthorized person. Unauthorized ac-
quisition will be presumed to include
unauthorized access to unencrypted
customer information unless you have
reliable evidence showing that there
has not been, or could not reasonably
have been, unauthorized acquisition of
such information.
(n) Penetration testing means a test
methodology in which assessors at-
tempt to circumvent or defeat the se-
curity features of an information sys-
tem by attempting penetration of data-
bases or controls from outside or inside
your information systems.
(o)(1) Personally identifiable financial
information means any information:
(i) A consumer provides to you to ob-
tain a financial product or service from
you;
(ii) About a consumer resulting from
any transaction involving a financial
product or service between you and a
consumer; or
(iii) You otherwise obtain about a
consumer in connection with providing
a financial product or service to that
consumer.
(2) For example:
(i) Information included. Personally
identifiable financial information in-
cludes:
(A) Information a consumer provides
to you on an application to obtain a
loan, credit card, or other financial
product or service;
(B) Account balance information,
payment history, overdraft history,
and credit or debit card purchase infor-
mation;
(C) The fact that an individual is or
has been one of your customers or has
obtained a financial product or service
from you;
(D) Any information about your con-
sumer if it is disclosed in a manner
that indicates that the individual is or
has been your consumer;
(E) Any information that a consumer
provides to you or that you or your
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00481 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
472
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 314.3
agent otherwise obtain in connection
with collecting on, or servicing, a cred-
it account;
(F) Any information you collect
through an internet ‘‘cookie’’ (an infor-
mation collecting device from a web
server); and
(G) Information from a consumer re-
port.
(ii) Information not included. Person-
ally identifiable financial information
does not include:
(A) A list of names and addresses of
customers of an entity that is not a fi-
nancial institution; and
(B) Information that does not iden-
tify a consumer, such as aggregate in-
formation or blind data that does not
contain personal identifiers such as ac-
count numbers, names, or addresses.
(p)(1) Publicly available information
means any information that you have a
reasonable basis to believe is lawfully
made available to the general public
from:
(i) Federal, State, or local govern-
ment records;
(ii) Widely distributed media; or
(iii) Disclosures to the general public
that are required to be made by Fed-
eral, State, or local law.
(2) You have a reasonable basis to be-
lieve that information is lawfully made
available to the general public if you
have taken steps to determine:
(i) That the information is of the
type that is available to the general
public; and
(ii) Whether an individual can direct
that the information not be made
available to the general public and, if
so, that your consumer has not done
so.
(3) For example:
(i) Government records. Publicly avail-
able information in government
records includes information in govern-
ment real estate records and security
interest filings.
(ii) Widely distributed media. Publicly
available information from widely dis-
tributed media includes information
from a telephone book, a television or
radio program, a newspaper, or a
website that is available to the general
public on an unrestricted basis. A
website is not restricted merely be-
cause an internet service provider or a
site operator requires a fee or a pass-
word, so long as access is available to
the general public.
(iii) Reasonable basis. (A) You have a
reasonable basis to believe that mort-
gage information is lawfully made
available to the general public if you
have determined that the information
is of the type included on the public
record in the jurisdiction where the
mortgage would be recorded.
(B) You have a reasonable basis to
believe that an individual’s telephone
number is lawfully made available to
the general public if you have located
the telephone number in the telephone
book or the consumer has informed you
that the telephone number is not un-
listed.
(q) Security event means an event re-
sulting in unauthorized access to, or
disruption or misuse of, an information
system, information stored on such in-
formation system, or customer infor-
mation held in physical form.
(r) Service provider means any person
or entity that receives, maintains,
processes, or otherwise is permitted ac-
cess to customer information through
its provision of services directly to a fi-
nancial institution that is subject to
this part.
(s) You includes each ‘‘financial insti-
tution’’ (but excludes any ‘‘other per-
son’’) over which the Commission has
enforcement jurisdiction pursuant to
section 505(a)(7) of the Gramm-Leach-
Bliley Act.
[86 FR 70304, Dec. 9, 2021, as amended at 88
FR 77508, Nov. 13, 2023]
§ 314.3 Standards for safeguarding
customer information.
(a) Information security program. You
shall develop, implement, and main-
tain a comprehensive information se-
curity program that is written in one
or more readily accessible parts and
contains administrative, technical, and
physical safeguards that are appro-
priate to your size and complexity, the
nature and scope of your activities, and
the sensitivity of any customer infor-
mation at issue. The information secu-
rity program shall include the ele-
ments set forth in § 314.4 and shall be
reasonably designed to achieve the ob-
jectives of this part, as set forth in
paragraph (b) of this section.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00482 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
473
Federal Trade Commission § 314.4
(b) Objectives. The objectives of sec-
tion 501(b) of the Act, and of this part,
are to:
(1) Insure the security and confiden-
tiality of customer information;
(2) Protect against any anticipated
threats or hazards to the security or
integrity of such information; and
(3) Protect against unauthorized ac-
cess to or use of such information that
could result in substantial harm or in-
convenience to any customer.
[67 FR 36493, May 23, 2002, as amended at 86
FR 70307, Dec. 9, 2021]
§ 314.4 Elements.
In order to develop, implement, and
maintain your information security
program, you shall:
(a) Designate a qualified individual
responsible for overseeing and imple-
menting your information security
program and enforcing your informa-
tion security program (for purposes of
this part, ‘‘Qualified Individual’’). The
Qualified Individual may be employed
by you, an affiliate, or a service pro-
vider. To the extent the requirement in
this paragraph (a) is met using a serv-
ice provider or an affiliate, you shall:
(1) Retain responsibility for compli-
ance with this part;
(2) Designate a senior member of
your personnel responsible for direc-
tion and oversight of the Qualified In-
dividual; and
(3) Require the service provider or af-
filiate to maintain an information se-
curity program that protects you in ac-
cordance with the requirements of this
part.
(b) Base your information security
program on a risk assessment that
identifies reasonably foreseeable inter-
nal and external risks to the security,
confidentiality, and integrity of cus-
tomer information that could result in
the unauthorized disclosure, misuse,
alteration, destruction, or other com-
promise of such information, and as-
sesses the sufficiency of any safeguards
in place to control these risks.
(1) The risk assessment shall be writ-
ten and shall include:
(i) Criteria for the evaluation and
categorization of identified security
risks or threats you face;
(ii) Criteria for the assessment of the
confidentiality, integrity, and avail-
ability of your information systems
and customer information, including
the adequacy of the existing controls
in the context of the identified risks or
threats you face; and
(iii) Requirements describing how
identified risks will be mitigated or ac-
cepted based on the risk assessment
and how the information security pro-
gram will address the risks.
(2) You shall periodically perform ad-
ditional risk assessments that reexam-
ine the reasonably foreseeable internal
and external risks to the security, con-
fidentiality, and integrity of customer
information that could result in the
unauthorized disclosure, misuse, alter-
ation, destruction, or other com-
promise of such information, and reas-
sess the sufficiency of any safeguards
in place to control these risks.
(c) Design and implement safeguards
to control the risks you identify
through risk assessment, including by:
(1) Implementing and periodically re-
viewing access controls, including
technical and, as appropriate, physical
controls to:
(i) Authenticate and permit access
only to authorized users to protect
against the unauthorized acquisition of
customer information; and
(ii) Limit authorized users’ access
only to customer information that
they need to perform their duties and
functions, or, in the case of customers,
to access their own information;
(2) Identify and manage the data, per-
sonnel, devices, systems, and facilities
that enable you to achieve business
purposes in accordance with their rel-
ative importance to business objectives
and your risk strategy;
(3) Protect by encryption all cus-
tomer information held or transmitted
by you both in transit over external
networks and at rest. To the extent
you determine that encryption of cus-
tomer information, either in transit
over external networks or at rest, is in-
feasible, you may instead secure such
customer information using effective
alternative compensating controls re-
viewed and approved by your Qualified
Individual;
(4) Adopt secure development prac-
tices for in-house developed applica-
tions utilized by you for transmitting,
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00483 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
474
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 314.4
accessing, or storing customer infor-
mation and procedures for evaluating,
assessing, or testing the security of ex-
ternally developed applications you
utilize to transmit, access, or store
customer information;
(5) Implement multi-factor authen-
tication for any individual accessing
any information system, unless your
Qualified Individual has approved in
writing the use of reasonably equiva-
lent or more secure access controls;
(6)(i) Develop, implement, and main-
tain procedures for the secure disposal
of customer information in any format
no later than two years after the last
date the information is used in connec-
tion with the provision of a product or
service to the customer to which it re-
lates, unless such information is nec-
essary for business operations or for
other legitimate business purposes, is
otherwise required to be retained by
law or regulation, or where targeted
disposal is not reasonably feasible due
to the manner in which the informa-
tion is maintained; and
(ii) Periodically review your data re-
tention policy to minimize the unnec-
essary retention of data;
(7) Adopt procedures for change man-
agement; and
(8) Implement policies, procedures,
and controls designed to monitor and
log the activity of authorized users and
detect unauthorized access or use of, or
tampering with, customer information
by such users.
(d)(1) Regularly test or otherwise
monitor the effectiveness of the safe-
guards’ key controls, systems, and pro-
cedures, including those to detect ac-
tual and attempted attacks on, or in-
trusions into, information systems.
(2) For information systems, the
monitoring and testing shall include
continuous monitoring or periodic pen-
etration testing and vulnerability as-
sessments. Absent effective continuous
monitoring or other systems to detect,
on an ongoing basis, changes in infor-
mation systems that may create
vulnerabilities, you shall conduct:
(i) Annual penetration testing of
your information systems determined
each given year based on relevant iden-
tified risks in accordance with the risk
assessment; and
(ii) Vulnerability assessments, in-
cluding any systemic scans or reviews
of information systems reasonably de-
signed to identify publicly known secu-
rity vulnerabilities in your informa-
tion systems based on the risk assess-
ment, at least every six months; and
whenever there are material changes to
your operations or business arrange-
ments; and whenever there are cir-
cumstances you know or have reason
to know may have a material impact
on your information security program.
(e) Implement policies and proce-
dures to ensure that personnel are able
to enact your information security pro-
gram by:
(1) Providing your personnel with se-
curity awareness training that is up-
dated as necessary to reflect risks iden-
tified by the risk assessment;
(2) Utilizing qualified information se-
curity personnel employed by you or
an affiliate or service provider suffi-
cient to manage your information se-
curity risks and to perform or oversee
the information security program;
(3) Providing information security
personnel with security updates and
training sufficient to address relevant
security risks; and
(4) Verifying that key information
security personnel take steps to main-
tain current knowledge of changing in-
formation security threats and coun-
termeasures.
(f) Oversee service providers, by:
(1) Taking reasonable steps to select
and retain service providers that are
capable of maintaining appropriate
safeguards for the customer informa-
tion at issue;
(2) Requiring your service providers
by contract to implement and main-
tain such safeguards; and
(3) Periodically assessing your serv-
ice providers based on the risk they
present and the continued adequacy of
their safeguards.
(g) Evaluate and adjust your infor-
mation security program in light of the
results of the testing and monitoring
required by paragraph (d) of this sec-
tion; any material changes to your op-
erations or business arrangements; the
results of risk assessments performed
under paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
or any other circumstances that you
know or have reason to know may have
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00484 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
475
Federal Trade Commission § 314.4
a material impact on your information
security program.
(h) Establish a written incident re-
sponse plan designed to promptly re-
spond to, and recover from, any secu-
rity event materially affecting the con-
fidentiality, integrity, or availability
of customer information in your con-
trol. Such incident response plan shall
address the following areas:
(1) The goals of the incident response
plan;
(2) The internal processes for re-
sponding to a security event;
(3) The definition of clear roles, re-
sponsibilities, and levels of decision-
making authority;
(4) External and internal communica-
tions and information sharing;
(5) Identification of requirements for
the remediation of any identified
weaknesses in information systems and
associated controls;
(6) Documentation and reporting re-
garding security events and related in-
cident response activities; and
(7) The evaluation and revision as
necessary of the incident response plan
following a security event.
(i) Require your Qualified Individual
to report in writing, regularly and at
least annually, to your board of direc-
tors or equivalent governing body. If
no such board of directors or equiva-
lent governing body exists, such report
shall be timely presented to a senior
officer responsible for your informa-
tion security program. The report shall
include the following information:
(1) The overall status of the informa-
tion security program and your compli-
ance with this part; and
(2) Material matters related to the
information security program, address-
ing issues such as risk assessment, risk
management and control decisions,
service provider arrangements, results
of testing, security events or violations
and management’s responses thereto,
and recommendations for changes in
the information security program.
(j) Notify the Federal Trade Commis-
sion about notification events in ac-
cordance with paragraphs (j)(1) and (2)
of this section.
(1) Notification requirement. Upon dis-
covery of a notification event as de-
scribed in paragraph (j)(2) of this sec-
tion, if the notification event involves
the information of at least 500 con-
sumers, you must notify the Federal
Trade Commission as soon as possible,
and no later than 30 days after dis-
covery of the event. The notice shall be
made electronically on a form to be lo-
cated on the FTC’s website, https://
www.ftc.gov. The notice shall include
the following:
(i) The name and contact information
of the reporting financial institution;
(ii) A description of the types of in-
formation that were involved in the no-
tification event;
(iii) If the information is possible to
determine, the date or date range of
the notification event;
(iv) The number of consumers af-
fected or potentially affected by the
notification event;
(v) A general description of the noti-
fication event; and
(vi) Whether any law enforcement of-
ficial has provided you with a written
determination that notifying the pub-
lic of the breach would impede a crimi-
nal investigation or cause damage to
national security, and a means for the
Federal Trade Commission to contact
the law enforcement official. A law en-
forcement official may request an ini-
tial delay of up to 30 days following the
date when notice was provided to the
Federal Trade Commission. The delay
may be extended for an additional pe-
riod of up to 60 days if the law enforce-
ment official seeks such an extension
in writing. Additional delay may be
permitted only if the Commission staff
determines that public disclosure of a
security event continues to impede a
criminal investigation or cause damage
to national security.
(2) Notification event treated as discov-
ered. A notification event shall be
treated as discovered as of the first day
on which such event is known to you.
You shall be deemed to have knowledge
of a notification event if such event is
known to any person, other than the
person committing the breach, who is
your employee, officer, or other agent.
[86 FR 70307, Dec. 9, 2021, as amended at 88
FR 77508, Nov. 13, 2023]
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00485 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
476
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 314.5
§ 314.5 Effective date.
Section 314.4(j) is effective as of May
13, 2024.
[88 FR 77509, Nov. 13, 2023]
§ 314.6 Exceptions.
Section 314.4(b)(1), (d)(2), (h), and (i)
do not apply to financial institutions
that maintain customer information
concerning fewer than five thousand
consumers.
[86 FR 70308, Dec. 9, 2021]
PART 315—CONTACT LENS RULE
Sec.
315.1 Scope of regulations in this part.
315.2 Definitions.
315.3 Availability of contact lens prescrip-
tions to patients.
315.4 Limits on requiring immediate pay-
ment.
315.5 Prescriber verification.
315.6 Expiration of contact lens prescrip-
tions.
315.7 Content of advertisements and other
representations.
315.8 Prohibition of certain waivers.
315.9 Enforcement.
315.10 Severability.
315.11 Effect on state and local laws.
AUTHORITY: 15 U.S.C. 7601–7610.
SOURCE: 69 FR 40508, July 2, 2004, unless
otherwise noted.
§ 315.1 Scope of regulations in this
part.
This part, which shall be called the
‘‘Contact Lens Rule,’’ implements the
Fairness to Contact Lens Consumers
Act, codified at 15 U.S.C. 7601–7610,
which requires that rules be issued to
address the release, verification, and
sale of contact lens prescriptions. This
part specifically governs contact lens
prescriptions and related issues. Part
456 of Title 16 governs the availability
of eyeglass prescriptions and related
issues (the Ophthalmic Practice Rules
(Eyeglass Rule)).
§ 315.2 Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the fol-
lowing definitions shall apply:
Business hour means an hour between
9 a.m. and 5 p.m., during a weekday
(Monday through Friday), excluding
Federal holidays. ‘‘Business hour’’ also
may include, at the seller’s option, a
prescriber’s regular business hours on
Saturdays, provided that the seller has
actual knowledge of these hours.
‘‘Business hour’’ shall be determined
based on the time zone of the pre-
scriber.
‘‘Eight (8) business hours’’ shall be
calculated from the time the prescriber
receives the prescription verification
information from the seller, and shall
conclude when eight (8) business hours
have elapsed. For verification requests
received by a prescriber during non-
business hours, the calculation of
‘‘eight (8) business hours’’ shall begin
at 9 a.m. on the next weekday that is
not a Federal holiday or, if applicable,
on Saturday at the beginning of the
prescriber’s actual business hours.
Commission means the Federal Trade
Commission.
Contact lens means any contact lens
for which State or Federal law requires
a prescription.
Contact lens fitting means the process
that begins after an initial eye exam-
ination for contact lenses and ends
when a successful fit has been achieved
or, in the case of a renewal prescrip-
tion, ends when the prescriber deter-
mines that no change in the existing
prescription is required, and such term
may include:
(1) An examination to determine lens
specifications;
(2) Except in the case of a renewal of
a contact lens prescription, an initial
evaluation of the fit of the contact lens
on the eye; and
(3) Medically necessary follow-up ex-
aminations.
Contact lens prescription means a pre-
scription, issued in accordance with
State and Federal law, that contains
sufficient information for the complete
and accurate filling of a prescription
for contact lenses, including the fol-
lowing:
(1) The name of the patient;
(2) The date of examination;
(3) The issue date and expiration date
of prescription;
(4) The name, postal address, tele-
phone number, and facsimile telephone
number of prescriber;
(5) The power, material or manufac-
turer or both of the prescribed contact
lens;
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00486 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
