649
Federal Trade Commission § 681.1
information when such information is
placed into a common database and is
accessible by you.
PART 681—IDENTITY THEFT RULES
Sec.
681.1 Duties regarding the detection, pre-
vention, and mitigation of identity theft.
681.2 Duties of card issuers regarding
changes of address.
APPENDIX A TO PART 681—INTERAGENCY
GUIDELINES ON IDENTITY THEFT DETEC-
TION, PREVENTION, AND MITIGATION
AUTHORITY: 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e); 15 U.S.C.
1681m(e)(4); 15 U.S.C. 1681c(h).
SOURCE: 72 FR 63771, Nov. 9, 2007, unless
otherwise noted.
§ 681.1 Duties regarding the detection,
prevention, and mitigation of iden-
tity theft.
(a) Scope. This section applies to fi-
nancial institutions and creditors that
are subject to administrative enforce-
ment of the FCRA by the Federal
Trade Commission pursuant to 15
U.S.C. 1681s(a)(1).
(b) Definitions. For purposes of this
section, and Appendix A, the following
definitions apply:
(1) Account means a continuing rela-
tionship established by a person with a
financial institution or creditor to ob-
tain a product or service for personal,
family, household or business purposes.
Account includes:
(i) An extension of credit, such as the
purchase of property or services involv-
ing a deferred payment; and
(ii) A deposit account.
(2) The term board of directors in-
cludes:
(i) In the case of a branch or agency
of a foreign bank, the managing offi-
cial in charge of the branch or agency;
and
(ii) In the case of any other creditor
that does not have a board of directors,
a designated employee at the level of
senior management.
(3) Covered account means:
(i) An account that a financial insti-
tution or creditor offers or maintains,
primarily for personal, family, or
household purposes, that involves or is
designed to permit multiple payments
or transactions, such as a credit card
account, mortgage loan, automobile
loan, margin account, cell phone ac-
count, utility account, checking ac-
count, or savings account; and
(ii) Any other account that the finan-
cial institution or creditor offers or
maintains for which there is a reason-
ably foreseeable risk to customers or
to the safety and soundness of the fi-
nancial institution or creditor from
identity theft, including financial,
operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
(4) Credit has the same meaning as in
15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(5) Creditor has the same meaning as
in 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4).
(6) Customer means a person that has
a covered account with a financial in-
stitution or creditor.
(7) Financial institution has the same
meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(t).
(8) Identity theft has the same mean-
ing as in 16 CFR 603.2(a).
(9) Red Flag means a pattern, prac-
tice, or specific activity that indicates
the possible existence of identity theft.
(10) Service provider means a person
that provides a service directly to the
financial institution or creditor.
(c) Periodic Identification of Covered
Accounts. Each financial institution or
creditor must periodically determine
whether it offers or maintains covered
accounts. As a part of this determina-
tion, a financial institution or creditor
must conduct a risk assessment to de-
termine whether it offers or maintains
covered accounts described in para-
graph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, taking
into consideration:
(1) The methods it provides to open
its accounts;
(2) The methods it provides to access
its accounts; and
(3) Its previous experiences with iden-
tity theft.
(d) Establishment of an Identity Theft
Prevention Program—(1) Program require-
ment. Each financial institution or
creditor that offers or maintains one or
more covered accounts must develop
and implement a written Identity
Theft Prevention Program (Program)
that is designed to detect, prevent, and
mitigate identity theft in connection
with the opening of a covered account
or any existing covered account. The
Program must be appropriate to the
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00659 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
650
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 681.2
size and complexity of the financial in-
stitution or creditor and the nature
and scope of its activities.
(2) Elements of the Program. The Pro-
gram must include reasonable policies
and procedures to:
(i) Identify relevant Red Flags for the
covered accounts that the financial in-
stitution or creditor offers or main-
tains, and incorporate those Red Flags
into its Program;
(ii) Detect Red Flags that have been
incorporated into the Program of the
financial institution or creditor;
(iii) Respond appropriately to any
Red Flags that are detected pursuant
to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section to
prevent and mitigate identity theft;
and
(iv) Ensure the Program (including
the Red Flags determined to be rel-
evant) is updated periodically, to re-
flect changes in risks to customers and
to the safety and soundness of the fi-
nancial institution or creditor from
identity theft.
(e) Administration of the Program.
Each financial institution or creditor
that is required to implement a Pro-
gram must provide for the continued
administration of the Program and
must:
(1) Obtain approval of the initial
written Program from either its board
of directors or an appropriate com-
mittee of the board of directors;
(2) Involve the board of directors, an
appropriate committee thereof, or a
designated employee at the level of
senior management in the oversight,
development, implementation and ad-
ministration of the Program;
(3) Train staff, as necessary, to effec-
tively implement the Program; and
(4) Exercise appropriate and effective
oversight of service provider arrange-
ments.
(f) Guidelines. Each financial institu-
tion or creditor that is required to im-
plement a Program must consider the
guidelines in appendix A of this part
and include in its Program those guide-
lines that are appropriate.
[74 FR 22645, May 14, 2009, as amended at 77
FR 72715, Dec. 6, 2012]
§ 681.2 Duties of card issuers regard-
ing changes of address.
(a) Scope. This section applies to a
person described in § 681.1(a) that issues
a debit or credit card (card issuer).
(b) Definitions. For purposes of this
section:
(1) Cardholder means a consumer who
has been issued a credit or debit card.
(2) Clear and conspicuous means rea-
sonably understandable and designed
to call attention to the nature and sig-
nificance of the information presented.
(c) Address validation requirements. A
card issuer must establish and imple-
ment reasonable policies and proce-
dures to assess the validity of a change
of address if it receives notification of
a change of address for a consumer’s
debit or credit card account and, with-
in a short period of time afterwards
(during at least the first 30 days after
it receives such notification), the card
issuer receives a request for an addi-
tional or replacement card for the
same account. Under these cir-
cumstances, the card issuer may not
issue an additional or replacement
card, until, in accordance with its rea-
sonable policies and procedures and for
the purpose of assessing the validity of
the change of address, the card issuer:
(1)(i) Notifies the cardholder of the
request:
(A) At the cardholder’s former ad-
dress; or
(B) By any other means of commu-
nication that the card issuer and the
cardholder have previously agreed to
use; and
(ii) Provides to the cardholder a rea-
sonable means of promptly reporting
incorrect address changes; or
(2) Otherwise assesses the validity of
the change of address in accordance
with the policies and procedures the
card issuer has established pursuant to
§ 681.1 of this part.
(d) Alternative timing of address valida-
tion. A card issuer may satisfy the re-
quirements of paragraph (c) of this sec-
tion if it validates an address pursuant
to the methods in paragraph (c)(1) or
(c)(2) of this section when it receives an
address change notification, before it
receives a request for an additional or
replacement card.
(e) Form of notice. Any written or
electronic notice that the card issuer
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00660 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
651
Federal Trade Commission Pt. 681, App. A
provides under this paragraph must be
clear and conspicuous and provided
separately from its regular correspond-
ence with the cardholder.
[74 FR 22645, May 14, 2009]
APPENDIX A TO PART 681—INTERAGENCY
GUIDELINES ON IDENTITY THEFT DE-
TECTION, PREVENTION, AND MITIGA-
TION
Section 681.1 of this part requires each fi-
nancial institution and creditor that offers
or maintains one or more covered accounts,
as defined in § 681.1(b)(3) of this part, to de-
velop and provide for the continued adminis-
tration of a written Program to detect, pre-
vent, and mitigate identity theft in connec-
tion with the opening of a covered account
or any existing covered account. These
guidelines are intended to assist financial in-
stitutions and creditors in the formulation
and maintenance of a Program that satisfies
the requirements of § 681.1 of this part.
I. The Program
In designing its Program, a financial insti-
tution or creditor may incorporate, as appro-
priate, its existing policies, procedures, and
other arrangements that control reasonably
foreseeable risks to customers or to the safe-
ty and soundness of the financial institution
or creditor from identity theft.
II. Identifying Relevant Red Flags
(a) Risk Factors. A financial institution or
creditor should consider the following fac-
tors in identifying relevant Red Flags for
covered accounts, as appropriate:
(1) The types of covered accounts it offers
or maintains;
(2) The methods it provides to open its cov-
ered accounts;
(3) The methods it provides to access its
covered accounts; and
(4) Its previous experiences with identity
theft.
(b) Sources of Red Flags. Financial institu-
tions and creditors should incorporate rel-
evant Red Flags from sources such as:
(1) Incidents of identity theft that the fi-
nancial institution or creditor has experi-
enced;
(2) Methods of identity theft that the fi-
nancial institution or creditor has identified
that reflect changes in identity theft risks;
and
(3) Applicable supervisory guidance.
(c) Categories of Red Flags. The Program
should include relevant Red Flags from the
following categories, as appropriate. Exam-
ples of Red Flags from each of these cat-
egories are appended as supplement A to this
appendix A.
(1) Alerts, notifications, or other warnings
received from consumer reporting agencies
or service providers, such as fraud detection
services;
(2) The presentation of suspicious docu-
ments;
(3) The presentation of suspicious personal
identifying information, such as a suspicious
address change;
(4) The unusual use of, or other suspicious
activity related to, a covered account; and
(5) Notice from customers, victims of iden-
tity theft, law enforcement authorities, or
other persons regarding possible identity
theft in connection with covered accounts
held by the financial institution or creditor.
III. Detecting Red Flags
The Program’s policies and procedures
should address the detection of Red Flags in
connection with the opening of covered ac-
counts and existing covered accounts, such
as by:
(a) Obtaining identifying information
about, and verifying the identity of, a person
opening a covered account, for example,
using the policies and procedures regarding
identification and verification set forth in
the Customer Identification Program rules
implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) (31 CFR
103.121); and
(b) Authenticating customers, monitoring
transactions, and verifying the validity of
change of address requests, in the case of ex-
isting covered accounts.
IV. Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft
The Program’s policies and procedures
should provide for appropriate responses to
the Red Flags the financial institution or
creditor has detected that are commensurate
with the degree of risk posed. In determining
an appropriate response, a financial institu-
tion or creditor should consider aggravating
factors that may heighten the risk of iden-
tity theft, such as a data security incident
that results in unauthorized access to a cus-
tomer’s account records held by the financial
institution, creditor, or third party, or no-
tice that a customer has provided informa-
tion related to a covered account held by the
financial institution or creditor to someone
fraudulently claiming to represent the finan-
cial institution or creditor or to a fraudulent
website. Appropriate responses may include
the following:
(a) Monitoring a covered account for evi-
dence of identity theft;
(b) Contacting the customer;
(c) Changing any passwords, security
codes, or other security devices that permit
access to a covered account;
(d) Reopening a covered account with a
new account number;
(e) Not opening a new covered account;
(f) Closing an existing covered account;
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00661 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
652
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
Pt. 681, App. A
(g) Not attempting to collect on a covered
account or not selling a covered account to
a debt collector;
(h) Notifying law enforcement; or
(i) Determining that no response is war-
ranted under the particular circumstances.
V. Updating the Program
Financial institutions and creditors should
update the Program (including the Red Flags
determined to be relevant) periodically, to
reflect changes in risks to customers or to
the safety and soundness of the financial in-
stitution or creditor from identity theft,
based on factors such as:
(a) The experiences of the financial institu-
tion or creditor with identity theft;
(b) Changes in methods of identity theft;
(c) Changes in methods to detect, prevent,
and mitigate identity theft;
(d) Changes in the types of accounts that
the financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains; and
(e) Changes in the business arrangements
of the financial institution or creditor, in-
cluding mergers, acquisitions, alliances,
joint ventures, and service provider arrange-
ments.
VI. Methods for Administering the Program
(a) Oversight of Program. Oversight by the
board of directors, an appropriate committee
of the board, or a designated employee at the
level of senior management should include:
(1) Assigning specific responsibility for the
Program’s implementation;
(2) Reviewing reports prepared by staff re-
garding compliance by the financial institu-
tion or creditor with § 681.1 of this part; and
(3) Approving material changes to the Pro-
gram as necessary to address changing iden-
tity theft risks.
(b) Reports. (1) In general. Staff of the finan-
cial institution or creditor responsible for
development, implementation, and adminis-
tration of its Program should report to the
board of directors, an appropriate committee
of the board, or a designated employee at the
level of senior management, at least annu-
ally, on compliance by the financial institu-
tion or creditor with § 681.1 of this part.
(2) Contents of report. The report should ad-
dress material matters related to the Pro-
gram and evaluate issues such as: The effec-
tiveness of the policies and procedures of the
financial institution or creditor in address-
ing the risk of identity theft in connection
with the opening of covered accounts and
with respect to existing covered accounts;
service provider arrangements; significant
incidents involving identity theft and man-
agement’s response; and recommendations
for material changes to the Program.
(c) Oversight of service provider arrange-
ments. Whenever a financial institution or
creditor engages a service provider to per-
form an activity in connection with one or
more covered accounts the financial institu-
tion or creditor should take steps to ensure
that the activity of the service provider is
conducted in accordance with reasonable
policies and procedures designed to detect,
prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity
theft. For example, a financial institution or
creditor could require the service provider
by contract to have policies and procedures
to detect relevant Red Flags that may arise
in the performance of the service provider’s
activities, and either report the Red Flags to
the financial institution or creditor, or to
take appropriate steps to prevent or miti-
gate identity theft.
VII. Other Applicable Legal Requirements
Financial institutions and creditors should
be mindful of other related legal require-
ments that may be applicable, such as:
(a) For financial institutions and creditors
that are subject to 31 U.S.C. 5318(g), filing a
Suspicious Activity Report in accordance
with applicable law and regulation;
(b) Implementing any requirements under
15 U.S.C. 1681c–1(h) regarding the cir-
cumstances under which credit may be ex-
tended when the financial institution or
creditor detects a fraud or active duty alert;
(c) Implementing any requirements for fur-
nishers of information to consumer reporting
agencies under 15 U.S.C. 1681s–2, for example,
to correct or update inaccurate or incom-
plete information, and to not report informa-
tion that the furnisher has reasonable cause
to believe is inaccurate; and
(d) Complying with the prohibitions in 15
U.S.C. 1681m on the sale, transfer, and place-
ment for collection of certain debts resulting
from identity theft.
Supplement A to Appendix A
In addition to incorporating Red Flags
from the sources recommended in section
II.b. of the Guidelines in appendix A of this
part, each financial institution or creditor
may consider incorporating into its Pro-
gram, whether singly or in combination, Red
Flags from the following illustrative exam-
ples in connection with covered accounts:
Alerts, Notifications or Warnings from a
Consumer Reporting Agency
1. A fraud or active duty alert is included
with a consumer report.
2. A consumer reporting agency provides a
notice of credit freeze in response to a re-
quest for a consumer report.
3. A consumer reporting agency provides a
notice of address discrepancy, as defined in
§ 641.1(b) of this part.
4. A consumer report indicates a pattern of
activity that is inconsistent with the history
and usual pattern of activity of an applicant
or customer, such as:
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00662 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
653
Federal Trade Commission Pt. 681, App. A
a. A recent and significant increase in the
volume of inquiries;
b. An unusual number of recently estab-
lished credit relationships;
c. A material change in the use of credit,
especially with respect to recently estab-
lished credit relationships; or
d. An account that was closed for cause or
identified for abuse of account privileges by
a financial institution or creditor.
Suspicious Documents
5. Documents provided for identification
appear to have been altered or forged.
6. The photograph or physical description
on the identification is not consistent with
the appearance of the applicant or customer
presenting the identification.
7. Other information on the identification
is not consistent with information provided
by the person opening a new covered account
or customer presenting the identification.
8. Other information on the identification
is not consistent with readily accessible in-
formation that is on file with the financial
institution or creditor, such as a signature
card or a recent check.
9. An application appears to have been al-
tered or forged, or gives the appearance of
having been destroyed and reassembled.
Suspicious Personal Identifying Information
10. Personal identifying information pro-
vided is inconsistent when compared against
external information sources used by the fi-
nancial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address does not match any address
in the consumer report; or
b. The Social Security Number (SSN) has
not been issued, or is listed on the Social Se-
curity Administration’s Death Master File.
11. Personal identifying information pro-
vided by the customer is not consistent with
other personal identifying information pro-
vided by the customer. For example, there is
a lack of correlation between the SSN range
and date of birth.
12. Personal identifying information pro-
vided is associated with known fraudulent
activity as indicated by internal or third-
party sources used by the financial institu-
tion or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is the
same as the address provided on a fraudulent
application; or
b. The phone number on an application is
the same as the number provided on a fraud-
ulent application.
13. Personal identifying information pro-
vided is of a type commonly associated with
fraudulent activity as indicated by internal
or third-party sources used by the financial
institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is ficti-
tious, a mail drop, or a prison; or
b. The phone number is invalid, or is asso-
ciated with a pager or answering service.
14. The SSN provided is the same as that
submitted by other persons opening an ac-
count or other customers.
15. The address or telephone number pro-
vided is the same as or similar to the address
or telephone number submitted by an unusu-
ally large number of other persons opening
accounts or by other customers.
16. The person opening the covered account
or the customer fails to provide all required
personal identifying information on an appli-
cation or in response to notification that the
application is incomplete.
17. Personal identifying information pro-
vided is not consistent with personal identi-
fying information that is on file with the fi-
nancial institution or creditor.
18. For financial institutions and creditors
that use challenge questions, the person
opening the covered account or the customer
cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be avail-
able from a wallet or consumer report.
Unusual Use of, or Suspicious Activity Related
to, the Covered Account
19. Shortly following the notice of a change
of address for a covered account, the institu-
tion or creditor receives a request for a new,
additional, or replacement card or a cell
phone, or for the addition of authorized users
on the account.
20. A new revolving credit account is used
in a manner commonly associated with
known patterns of fraud. For example:
a. The majority of available credit is used
for cash advances or merchandise that is eas-
ily convertible to cash (e.g., electronics
equipment or jewelry); or
b. The customer fails to make the first
payment or makes an initial payment but no
subsequent payments.
21. A covered account is used in a manner
that is not consistent with established pat-
terns of activity on the account. There is, for
example:
a. Nonpayment when there is no history of
late or missed payments;
b. A material increase in the use of avail-
able credit;
c. A material change in purchasing or
spending patterns;
d. A material change in electronic fund
transfer patterns in connection with a de-
posit account; or
e. A material change in telephone call pat-
terns in connection with a cellular phone ac-
count.
22. A covered account that has been inac-
tive for a reasonably lengthy period of time
is used (taking into consideration the type of
account, the expected pattern of usage and
other relevant factors).
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00663 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8002 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
654
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
Pt. 682
23. Mail sent to the customer is returned
repeatedly as undeliverable although trans-
actions continue to be conducted in connec-
tion with the customer’s covered account.
24. The financial institution or creditor is
notified that the customer is not receiving
paper account statements.
25. The financial institution or creditor is
notified of unauthorized charges or trans-
actions in connection with a customer’s cov-
ered account.
Notice from Customers, Victims of Identity
Theft, Law Enforcement Authorities, or Other
Persons Regarding Possible Identity Theft in
Connection With Covered Accounts Held by
the Financial Institution or Creditor
26. The financial institution or creditor is
notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any
other person that it has opened a fraudulent
account for a person engaged in identity
theft.
[72 FR 63771, Nov. 9, 2007, as amended at 74
FR 22646, May 14, 2009]
PART 682—DISPOSAL OF CON-
SUMER REPORT INFORMATION
AND RECORDS
Sec.
682.1 Definitions.
682.2 Purpose and scope.
682.3 Proper disposal of consumer informa-
tion.
682.4 Relation to other laws.
682.5 Effective date.
AUTHORITY: Pub. L. 108–159, sec. 216.
SOURCE: 69 FR 68697, Nov. 24, 2004, unless
otherwise noted.
§ 682.1 Definitions.
(a) In general. Except as modified by
this part or unless the context other-
wise requires, the terms used in this
part have the same meaning as set
forth in the Fair Credit Reporting Act,
15 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.
(b) ‘‘Consumer information’’ means
any record about an individual, wheth-
er in paper, electronic, or other form,
that is a consumer report or is derived
from a consumer report. Consumer in-
formation also means a compilation of
such records. Consumer information
does not include information that does
not identify individuals, such as aggre-
gate information or blind data.
(c) ‘‘Dispose,’’ ‘‘disposing,’’ or
‘‘disposal’’ means:
(1) The discarding or abandonment of
consumer information, or
(2) The sale, donation, or transfer of
any medium, including computer
equipment, upon which consumer infor-
mation is stored.
§ 682.2 Purpose and scope.
(a) Purpose. This part (‘‘rule’’) imple-
ments section 216 of the Fair and Accu-
rate Credit Transactions Act of 2003,
which is designed to reduce the risk of
consumer fraud and related harms, in-
cluding identity theft, created by im-
proper disposal of consumer informa-
tion.
(b) Scope. This rule applies to any
person over which the Federal Trade
Commission has jurisdiction, that, for
a business purpose, maintains or other-
wise possesses consumer information.
§ 682.3 Proper disposal of consumer in-
formation.
(a) Standard. Any person who main-
tains or otherwise possesses consumer
information for a business purpose
must properly dispose of such informa-
tion by taking reasonable measures to
protect against unauthorized access to
or use of the information in connection
with its disposal.
(b) Examples. Reasonable measures to
protect against unauthorized access to
or use of consumer information in con-
nection with its disposal include the
following examples. These examples
are illustrative only and are not exclu-
sive or exhaustive methods for com-
plying with the rule in this part.
(1) Implementing and monitoring
compliance with policies and proce-
dures that require the burning, pulver-
izing, or shredding of papers containing
consumer information so that the in-
formation cannot practicably be read
or reconstructed.
(2) Implementing and monitoring
compliance with policies and proce-
dures that require the destruction or
erasure of electronic media containing
consumer information so that the in-
formation cannot practicably be read
or reconstructed.
(3) After due diligence, entering into
and monitoring compliance with a con-
tract with another party engaged in
the business of record destruction to
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00664 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
