429
Federal Trade Commission Pt. 312
(d) Recycled oil means processed used
oil that the manufacturer has deter-
mined, pursuant to section 311.4 of this
part, is substantially equivalent to new
oil for use as engine oil.
(e) Used oil means any synthetic oil
or oil that has been refined from crude
oil, which has been used and, as a re-
sult of such use, has been contami-
nated by physical or chemical impuri-
ties.
(f) Re-refined oil means used oil from
which physical and chemical contami-
nants acquired through use have been
removed.
§ 311.2 Stayed or invalid parts.
If any part of this rule is stayed or
held invalid, the rest of it will remain
in force.
§ 311.3 Preemption.
No law, regulation, or order of any
State or political subdivision thereof
may apply, or remain applicable, to
any container of recycled oil, if such
law, regulation, or order requires any
container of recycled oil, which con-
tainer bears a label in accordance with
the terms of § 311.5 of this part, to bear
any label with respect to the compara-
tive characteristics of such recycled oil
with new oil that is not identical to
that permitted by § 311.5 of this part.
§ 311.4 Testing.
To determine the substantial equiva-
lency of processed used oil with new oil
for use as engine oil, manufacturers or
their designees must use the test pro-
cedures in API 1509, Engine Oil Licens-
ing and Certification System, Seven-
teenth Edition, September 2012 (Adden-
dum 1, October 2014, Errata, March
2015). The Director of the Federal Reg-
ister approves this incorporation by
reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C.
552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may ob-
tain a copy from API, 1220 L Street
NW, Washington, DC 20005; telephone:
202–682–8000; internet address: https://
www.api.org. You may inspect a copy
at the FTC Library, 202–326–2395, Fed-
eral Trade Commission, Room H–630,
600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Wash-
ington, DC 20580. It is also available for
inspection at the National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA).
For information on the availability of
this material at NARA, call 202–741–
6030 or go to http://www.archives.gov/fed-
eral_register/code_of_federal_regulations/
ibr_locations.html.
[83 FR 48216, Sept. 24, 2018]
§ 311.5 Labeling.
A manufacturer or other seller may
represent, on a label on a container of
processed used oil, that such oil is sub-
stantially equivalent to new oil for use
as engine oil only if the manufacturer
has determined that the oil is substan-
tially equivalent to new oil for use as
engine oil in accordance with the NIST
test procedures prescribed under § 311.4
of this part, and has based the rep-
resentation on that determination.
§ 311.6 Prohibited acts.
It is unlawful for any manufacturer
or other seller to represent, on a label
on a container of processed used oil,
that such oil is substantially equiva-
lent to new oil for use as engine oil un-
less the manufacturer or other seller
has based such representation on the
manufacturer’s determination that the
processed used oil is substantially
equivalent to new oil for use as engine
oil in accordance with the NIST test
procedures prescribed under § 311.4 of
this part. Violations will be subject to
enforcement through civil penalties (as
adjusted for inflation pursuant to § 1.98
of this chapter), imprisonment, and/or
injunctive relief in accordance with the
enforcement provisions of Section 525
of the Energy Policy and Conservation
Act (42 U.S.C. 6395).
[60 FR 55421, Oct. 31, 1995, as amended at 65
FR 69666, Nov. 20, 2000]
PART 312—CHILDREN’S ONLINE
PRIVACY PROTECTION RULE
(COPPA RULE)
Sec.
312.1 Scope of regulations in this part.
312.2 Definitions.
312.3 Regulation of unfair or deceptive acts
or practices in connection with the col-
lection, use, and/or disclosure of personal
information from and about children on
the internet.
312.4 Notice.
312.5 Parental consent.
312.6 Right of parent to review personal in-
formation provided by a child.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00439 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
430
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 312.1
312.7 Prohibition against conditioning a
child’s participation on collection of per-
sonal information.
312.8 Confidentiality, security, and integ-
rity of personal information collected
from children.
312.9 Enforcement.
312.10 Data retention and deletion require-
ments.
312.11 Safe harbor programs.
312.12 Voluntary Commission approval proc-
esses.
312.13 Severability.
AUTHORITY: 15 U.S.C. 6501 through 6506.
SOURCE: 78 FR 4008, Jan. 17, 2013, as amend-
ed at 90 FR 16977, Apr. 22, 2025, unless other-
wise noted.
§ 312.1 Scope of regulations in this
part.
This part implements the Children’s
Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998
(15 U.S.C. 6501, et seq.), which prohibits
unfair or deceptive acts or practices in
connection with the collection, use,
and/or disclosure of personal informa-
tion from and about children on the
internet.
§ 312.2 Definitions.
Child means an individual under the
age of 13.
Collects or collection means the gath-
ering of any personal information from
a child by any means, including but
not limited to:
(1) Requesting, prompting, or encour-
aging a child to submit personal infor-
mation online;
(2) Enabling a child to make personal
information publicly available in iden-
tifiable form. An operator shall not be
considered to have collected personal
information under this paragraph if it
takes reasonable measures to delete all
or virtually all personal information
from a child’s postings before they are
made public and also to delete such in-
formation from its records; or
(3) Passive tracking of a child online.
Commission means the Federal Trade
Commission.
Delete means to remove personal in-
formation such that it is not main-
tained in retrievable form and cannot
be retrieved in the normal course of
business.
Disclose or disclosure means, with re-
spect to personal information:
(1) The release of personal informa-
tion collected by an operator from a
child in identifiable form for any pur-
pose, except where an operator pro-
vides such information to a person who
provides support for the internal oper-
ations of the website or online service;
and
(2) Making personal information col-
lected by an operator from a child pub-
licly available in identifiable form by
any means, including but not limited
to a public posting through the inter-
net, or through a personal home page
or screen posted on a website or online
service; a pen pal service; an electronic
mail service; a message board; or a
chat room.
Federal agency means an agency, as
that term is defined in section 551(1) of
title 5, United States Code.
Internet means collectively the myr-
iad of computer and telecommuni-
cations facilities, including equipment
and operating software, which com-
prise the interconnected world-wide
network of networks that employ the
Transmission Control Protocol/Inter-
net Protocol, or any predecessor or
successor protocols to such protocol, to
communicate information of all kinds
by wire, radio, or other methods of
transmission.
Mixed audience website or online service
means a website or online service that
is directed to children under the cri-
teria set forth in paragraph (1) of the
definition of website or online service di-
rected to children, but that does not tar-
get children as its primary audience,
and does not collect personal informa-
tion from any visitor, other than for
the limited purposes set forth in
§ 312.5(c), prior to collecting age infor-
mation or using another means that is
reasonably calculated, in light of avail-
able technology, to determine whether
the visitor is a child. Any collection of
age information, or other means of de-
termining whether a visitor is a child,
must be done in a neutral manner that
does not default to a set age or encour-
age visitors to falsify age information.
Obtaining verifiable consent means
making any reasonable effort (taking
into consideration available tech-
nology) to ensure that before personal
information is collected from a child, a
parent of the child:
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00440 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
431
Federal Trade Commission § 312.2
(1) Receives notice of the operator’s
personal information collection, use,
and disclosure practices; and
(2) Authorizes any collection, use,
and/or disclosure of the personal infor-
mation.
Online contact information means an
email address or any other substan-
tially similar identifier that permits
direct contact with a person online, in-
cluding but not limited to, an instant
messaging user identifier, a voice over
Internet Protocol (VOIP) identifier, a
video chat user identifier, or a mobile
telephone number provided the oper-
ator uses it only to send text messages
to a parent in connection with obtain-
ing parental consent.
Operator means any person who oper-
ates a website located on the internet
or an online service and who collects or
maintains personal information from
or about the users of or visitors to such
website or online service, or on whose
behalf such information is collected or
maintained, or offers products or serv-
ices for sale through that website or
online service, where such website or
online service is operated for commer-
cial purposes involving commerce
among the several States or with one
or more foreign nations; in any terri-
tory of the United States or in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, or between any such
territory and another such territory or
any State or foreign nation; or between
the District of Columbia and any
State, territory, or foreign nation. This
definition does not include any non-
profit entity that would otherwise be
exempt from coverage under Section 5
of the Federal Trade Commission Act
(15 U.S.C. 45). Personal information is
collected or maintained on behalf of an
operator when:
(1) It is collected or maintained by an
agent or service provider of the oper-
ator; or
(2) The operator benefits by allowing
another person to collect personal in-
formation directly from users of such
website or online service.
Parent includes a legal guardian.
Person means any individual, part-
nership, corporation, trust, estate, co-
operative, association, or other entity.
Personal information means individ-
ually identifiable information about an
individual collected online, including:
(1) A first and last name;
(2) A home or other physical address
including street name and name of a
city or town;
(3) Online contact information as de-
fined in this section;
(4) A screen or user name where it
functions in the same manner as online
contact information, as defined in this
section;
(5) A telephone number;
(6) A government-issued identifier,
such as a Social Security, State identi-
fication card, birth certificate, or pass-
port number;
(7) A persistent identifier that can be
used to recognize a user over time and
across different websites or online serv-
ices. Such persistent identifier in-
cludes, but is not limited to, a cus-
tomer number held in a cookie, an
Internet Protocol (IP) address, a proc-
essor or device serial number, or
unique device identifier;
(8) A photograph, video, or audio file
where such file contains a child’s
image or voice;
(9) Geolocation information suffi-
cient to identify street name and name
of a city or town;
(10) A biometric identifier that can
be used for the automated or semi-
automated recognition of an indi-
vidual, such as fingerprints; hand-
prints; retina patterns; iris patterns;
genetic data, including a DNA se-
quence; voiceprints; gait patterns; fa-
cial templates; or faceprints; or
(11) Information concerning the child
or the parents of that child that the
operator collects online from the child
and combines with an identifier de-
scribed in this definition.
Release of personal information means
the sharing, selling, renting, or trans-
fer of personal information to any
third party.
Support for the internal operations of
the website or online service means:
(1) Those activities necessary to:
(i) Maintain or analyze the func-
tioning of the website or online service;
(ii) Perform network communica-
tions;
(iii) Authenticate users of, or person-
alize the content on, the website or on-
line service;
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00441 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
432
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 312.3
(iv) Serve contextual advertising on
the website or online service or cap the
frequency of advertising;
(v) Protect the security or integrity
of the user, website, or online service;
(vi) Ensure legal or regulatory com-
pliance; or
(vii) Fulfill a request of a child as
permitted by § 312.5(c)(3) and (4).
(2) Provided, however, that, except as
specifically permitted by paragraphs
(1)(i) through (vii) of this definition,
the information collected for the ac-
tivities listed in paragraphs (1)(i)
through (vii) of this definition cannot
be used or disclosed to contact a spe-
cific individual, including through be-
havioral advertising, to amass a profile
on a specific individual, or for any
other purpose.
Third party means any person who is
not:
(1) An operator with respect to the
collection or maintenance of personal
information on the website or online
service; or
(2) A person who provides support for
the internal operations of the website
or online service and who does not use
or disclose information protected under
this part for any other purpose.
Website or online service directed to
children means a commercial website or
online service, or portion thereof, that
is targeted to children.
(1) In determining whether a website
or online service, or a portion thereof,
is directed to children, the Commission
will consider its subject matter, visual
content, use of animated characters or
child-oriented activities and incen-
tives, music or other audio content,
age of models, presence of child celeb-
rities or celebrities who appeal to chil-
dren, language or other characteristics
of the website or online service, as well
as whether advertising promoting or
appearing on the website or online
service is directed to children. The
Commission will also consider com-
petent and reliable empirical evidence
regarding audience composition and
evidence regarding the intended audi-
ence, including marketing or pro-
motional materials or plans, represen-
tations to consumers or to third par-
ties, reviews by users or third parties,
and the age of users on similar
websites or services.
(2) A website or online service shall
be deemed directed to children when it
has actual knowledge that it is col-
lecting personal information directly
from users of another website or online
service directed to children.
(3) A mixed audience website or on-
line service shall not be deemed di-
rected to children with regard to any
visitor not identified as under 13.
(4) A website or online service shall
not be deemed directed to children
solely because it refers or links to a
commercial website or online service
directed to children by using informa-
tion location tools, including a direc-
tory, index, reference, pointer, or
hypertext link.
§ 312.3 Regulation of unfair or decep-
tive acts or practices in connection
with the collection, use, and/or dis-
closure of personal information
from and about children on the
internet.
It shall be unlawful for any operator
of a website or online service directed
to children, or any operator that has
actual knowledge that it is collecting
or maintaining personal information
from a child, to collect personal infor-
mation from a child in a manner that
violates the regulations prescribed
under this part. Generally, under this
part, an operator must:
(a) Provide notice on the website or
online service of what information it
collects from children, how it uses such
information, and its disclosure prac-
tices for such information (§ 312.4(b));
(b) Obtain verifiable parental consent
prior to any collection, use, and/or dis-
closure of personal information from
children (§ 312.5);
(c) Provide a reasonable means for a
parent to review the personal informa-
tion collected from a child and to
refuse to permit its further use or
maintenance (§ 312.6);
(d) Not condition a child’s participa-
tion in a game, the offering of a prize,
or another activity on the child dis-
closing more personal information
than is reasonably necessary to partici-
pate in such activity (§ 312.7); and
(e) Establish and maintain reason-
able procedures to protect the con-
fidentiality, security, and integrity of
personal information collected from
children (§ 312.8).
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00442 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
433
Federal Trade Commission § 312.4
§ 312.4 Notice.
(a) General principles of notice. It shall
be the obligation of the operator to
provide notice and obtain verifiable pa-
rental consent prior to collecting,
using, or disclosing personal informa-
tion from children. Such notice must
be clearly and understandably written,
complete, and must contain no unre-
lated, confusing, or contradictory ma-
terials.
(b) Direct notice to the parent. An oper-
ator must make reasonable efforts,
taking into account available tech-
nology, to ensure that a parent of a
child receives direct notice of the oper-
ator’s practices with regard to the col-
lection, use, or disclosure of personal
information from children, including
notice of any material change in the
collection, use, or disclosure practices
to which the parent has previously con-
sented.
(c) Content of the direct notice to the
parent—(1) Content of the direct notice to
the parent for purposes of obtaining con-
sent. The direct notice to obtain the
parent’s affirmative consent to the col-
lection, use, or disclosure of a child’s
personal information (including under
§ 312.5(c)(1)) shall set forth:
(i) If applicable, that the operator
has collected the parent’s or child’s on-
line contact information from the
child, and, if such is the case, the name
of the child or the parent, in order to
obtain the parent’s consent;
(ii) That the parent’s consent is re-
quired for the collection, use, or disclo-
sure of personal information, and that
the operator will not collect, use, or
disclose any personal information from
the child if the parent does not provide
such consent;
(iii) The items of personal informa-
tion the operator intends to collect
from the child, how the operator in-
tends to use such information, and the
potential opportunities for the disclo-
sure of personal information, should
the parent provide consent;
(iv) Where the operator discloses per-
sonal information to one or more third
parties, the identities or specific cat-
egories of such third parties (including
the public if making it publicly avail-
able) and the purposes for such disclo-
sure, should the parent provide con-
sent, and that the parent can consent
to the collection and use of the child’s
personal information without con-
senting to the disclosure of such per-
sonal information to third parties ex-
cept to the extent such disclosure is in-
tegral to the website or online service;
(v) A hyperlink to the operator’s on-
line notice of its information practices
required under paragraph (d) of this
section;
(vi) The means by which the parent
can provide verifiable consent to the
collection, use, and disclosure of the
information; and
(vii) If the operator has collected the
name or online contact information of
the parent or child to provide notice
and obtain parental consent, that if the
parent does not provide consent within
a reasonable time from the date the di-
rect notice was sent, the operator will
delete the parent’s or child’s online
contact information and the parent’s
or child’s name from its records.
(2) Content of the direct notice to the
parent of a child’s online activities not in-
volving the collection, use or disclosure of
personal information. Where an operator
chooses to notify a parent of a child’s
participation in a website or online
service, and where such site or service
does not collect any personal informa-
tion other than the parent’s online
contact information, the voluntary di-
rect notice to the parent of a child’s
online activities not involving the col-
lection, use or disclosure of personal
information (required under
§ 312.5(c)(2)) shall set forth:
(i) That the operator has collected
the parent’s online contact informa-
tion from the child in order to provide
notice to, and subsequently update the
parent about, a child’s participation in
a website or online service that does
not otherwise collect, use, or disclose
children’s personal information;
(ii) That the parent’s online contact
information will not be used or dis-
closed for any other purpose;
(iii) That the parent may refuse to
permit the child’s participation in the
website or online service and may re-
quire the deletion of the parent’s on-
line contact information, and how the
parent can do so; and
(iv) A hyperlink to the operator’s on-
line notice of its information practices
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00443 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
434
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 312.4
required under paragraph (d) of this
section.
(3) Content of the direct notice to the
parent of operator’s intent to commu-
nicate with the child multiple times. The
direct notice to the parent of the oper-
ator’s intent to communicate with the
child multiple times (required under
§ 312.5(c)(4)) shall set forth:
(i) That the operator has collected
the child’s online contact information
from the child in order to provide mul-
tiple online communications to the
child;
(ii) That the operator has collected
the parent’s online contact informa-
tion from the child in order to notify
the parent that the child has registered
to receive multiple online communica-
tions from the operator;
(iii) That the online contact informa-
tion collected from the child will not
be used for any other purpose, dis-
closed, or combined with any other in-
formation collected from the child;
(iv) That the parent may refuse to
permit further contact with the child
and require the deletion of the parent’s
and child’s online contact information,
and how the parent can do so;
(v) That if the parent fails to respond
to this direct notice, the operator may
use the online contact information col-
lected from the child for the purpose
stated in the direct notice; and
(vi) A hyperlink to the operator’s on-
line notice of its information practices
required under paragraph (d) of this
section.
(4) Content of the direct notice to the
parent in order to protect a child’s safety.
The direct notice to the parent in order
to protect a child’s safety (required
under § 312.5(c)(5)) shall set forth:
(i) That the operator has collected
the name and the online contact infor-
mation of the child and the parent in
order to protect the safety of a child;
(ii) That the information will not be
used or disclosed for any purpose unre-
lated to the child’s safety;
(iii) That the parent may refuse to
permit the use, and require the dele-
tion, of the information collected, and
how the parent can do so;
(iv) That if the parent fails to re-
spond to this direct notice, the oper-
ator may use the information for the
purpose stated in the direct notice; and
(v) A hyperlink to the operator’s on-
line notice of its information practices
required under paragraph (d) of this
section.
(d) Notice on the website or online serv-
ice. In addition to the direct notice to
the parent, an operator must post a
prominent and clearly labeled link to
an online notice of its information
practices with regard to children on
the home or landing page or screen of
its website or online service, and, at
each area of the website or online serv-
ice where personal information is col-
lected from children. The link must be
in close proximity to the requests for
information in each such area. An op-
erator of a general audience website or
online service that has a separate chil-
dren’s area must post a link to a notice
of its information practices with re-
gard to children on the home or land-
ing page or screen of the children’s
area. To be complete, the online notice
of the website or online service’s infor-
mation practices must state the fol-
lowing:
(1) The name, address, telephone
number, and email address of all opera-
tors collecting or maintaining personal
information from children through the
website or online service. Provided
that: The operators of a website or on-
line service may list the name, address,
phone number, and email address of
one operator who will respond to all in-
quiries from parents concerning the op-
erators’ privacy policies and use of
children’s information, as long as the
names of all the operators collecting or
maintaining personal information from
children through the website or online
service are also listed in the notice;
(2) A description of what information
the operator collects from children, in-
cluding whether the website or online
service enables a child to make per-
sonal information publicly available;
how the operator uses such informa-
tion; the operator’s disclosure prac-
tices for such information, including
the identities and specific categories of
any third parties to which the operator
discloses personal information and the
purposes for such disclosures; and the
operator’s data retention policy as re-
quired under § 312.10;
(3) If applicable, the specific internal
operations for which the operator has
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00444 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
435
Federal Trade Commission § 312.5
collected a persistent identifier pursu-
ant to § 312.5(c)(7); and the means the
operator uses to ensure that such iden-
tifier is not used or disclosed to con-
tact a specific individual, including
through behavioral advertising, to
amass a profile on a specific individual,
or for any other purpose (except as spe-
cifically permitted to provide support
for the internal operations of the
website or online service);
(4) Where the operator collects audio
files containing a child’s voice pursu-
ant to § 312.5(c)(9), a description of how
the operator uses such audio files and
that the operator deletes such audio
files immediately after responding to
the request for which they were col-
lected; and
(5) If applicable, that the parent can
review or have deleted the child’s per-
sonal information, and refuse to permit
further collection or use of the child’s
information, and state the procedures
for doing so.
§ 312.5 Parental consent.
(a) General requirements. (1) An oper-
ator is required to obtain verifiable pa-
rental consent before any collection,
use, or disclosure of personal informa-
tion from children, including consent
to any material change in the collec-
tion, use, or disclosure practices to
which the parent has previously con-
sented.
(2) An operator must give the parent
the option to consent to the collection
and use of the child’s personal informa-
tion without consenting to disclosure
of his or her personal information to
third parties, unless such disclosure is
integral to the website or online serv-
ice. An operator required to give the
parent this option must obtain sepa-
rate verifiable parental consent to such
disclosure.
(b) Methods for verifiable parental con-
sent. (1) An operator must make rea-
sonable efforts to obtain verifiable pa-
rental consent, taking into consider-
ation available technology. Any meth-
od to obtain verifiable parental con-
sent must be reasonably calculated, in
light of available technology, to ensure
that the person providing consent is
the child’s parent.
(2) Existing methods to obtain
verifiable parental consent that satisfy
the requirements of this paragraph in-
clude:
(i) Providing a consent form to be
signed by the parent and returned to
the operator by postal mail, facsimile,
or electronic scan;
(ii) Requiring a parent, in connection
with a transaction, to use a credit
card, debit card, or other online pay-
ment system that provides notification
of each discrete transaction to the pri-
mary account holder;
(iii) Having a parent call a toll-free
telephone number staffed by trained
personnel;
(iv) Having a parent connect to
trained personnel via video-conference;
(v) Verifying a parent’s identity by
checking a form of government-issued
identification against databases of
such information, where the parent’s
identification is deleted by the oper-
ator from its records promptly after
such verification is complete;
(vi) Verifying a parent’s identity
using knowledge-based authentication
provided:
(A) the verification process uses dy-
namic, multiple-choice questions,
where there are a reasonable number of
questions with an adequate number of
possible answers such that the prob-
ability of correctly guessing the an-
swers is low; and
(B) the questions are of sufficient dif-
ficulty that a child age 12 or younger
in the parent’s household could not
reasonably ascertain the answers;
(vii) Having a parent submit a gov-
ernment-issued photographic identi-
fication that is verified to be authentic
and is compared against an image of
the parent’s face taken with a phone
camera or webcam using facial recogni-
tion technology and confirmed by per-
sonnel trained to confirm that the
photos match; provided that the par-
ent’s identification and images are
promptly deleted by the operator from
its records after the match is con-
firmed; or
(viii) Provided that, an operator that
does not ‘‘disclose’’ (as defined by
§ 312.2) children’s personal information,
may use an email coupled with addi-
tional steps to provide assurances that
the person providing the consent is the
parent. Such additional steps include:
Sending a confirmatory email to the
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00445 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
436
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 312.5
parent following receipt of consent, or
obtaining a postal address or telephone
number from the parent and con-
firming the parent’s consent by letter
or telephone call. An operator that
uses this method must provide notice
that the parent can revoke any consent
given in response to the earlier email.
(ix) Provided that, an operator that
does not ‘‘disclose’’ (as defined by
§ 312.2) children’s personal information,
may use a text message coupled with
additional steps to provide assurances
that the person providing the consent
is the parent. Such additional steps in-
clude: Sending a confirmatory text
message to the parent following receipt
of consent, or obtaining a postal ad-
dress or telephone number from the
parent and confirming the parent’s
consent by letter or telephone call. An
operator that uses this method must
provide notice that the parent can re-
voke any consent given in response to
the earlier text message.
(3) Safe harbor approval of parental
consent methods. A safe harbor program
approved by the Commission under
§ 312.11 may approve its member opera-
tors’ use of a parental consent method
not currently enumerated in paragraph
(b)(2) of this section where the safe har-
bor program determines that such pa-
rental consent method meets the re-
quirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this
section.
(c) Exceptions to prior parental consent.
Verifiable parental consent is required
prior to any collection, use, or disclo-
sure of personal information from a
child except as set forth in this para-
graph:
(1) Where the sole purpose of col-
lecting the name or online contact in-
formation of the parent or child is to
provide notice and obtain parental con-
sent under § 312.4(c)(1). If the operator
has not obtained parental consent after
a reasonable time from the date of the
information collection, the operator
must delete such information from its
records;
(2) Where the purpose of collecting a
parent’s online contact information is
to provide voluntary notice to, and
subsequently update the parent about,
the child’s participation in a website or
online service that does not otherwise
collect, use, or disclose children’s per-
sonal information. In such cases, the
parent’s online contact information
may not be used or disclosed for any
other purpose. In such cases, the oper-
ator must make reasonable efforts,
taking into consideration available
technology, to ensure that the parent
receives notice as described in
§ 312.4(c)(2);
(3) Where the sole purpose of col-
lecting online contact information
from a child is to respond directly on a
one-time basis to a specific request
from the child, and where such infor-
mation is not used to re-contact the
child or for any other purpose, is not
disclosed, and is deleted by the oper-
ator from its records promptly after re-
sponding to the child’s request;
(4) Where the purpose of collecting a
child’s and a parent’s online contact
information is to respond directly more
than once to the child’s specific re-
quest, and where such information is
not used for any other purpose, dis-
closed, or combined with any other in-
formation collected from the child. In
such cases, the operator must make
reasonable efforts, taking into consid-
eration available technology, to ensure
that the parent receives notice as de-
scribed in § 312.4(c)(3). An operator will
not be deemed to have made reasonable
efforts to ensure that a parent receives
notice where the notice to the parent
was unable to be delivered;
(5) Where the purpose of collecting a
child’s and a parent’s name and online
contact information, is to protect the
safety of a child, and where such infor-
mation is not used or disclosed for any
purpose unrelated to the child’s safety.
In such cases, the operator must make
reasonable efforts, taking into consid-
eration available technology, to pro-
vide a parent with notice as described
in § 312.4(c)(4);
(6) Where the purpose of collecting a
child’s name and online contact infor-
mation is to:
(i) Protect the security or integrity
of the website or online service;
(ii) Take precautions against liabil-
ity;
(iii) Respond to judicial process; or
(iv) To the extent permitted under
other provisions of law, to provide in-
formation to law enforcement agencies
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00446 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
437
Federal Trade Commission § 312.8
or for an investigation on a matter re-
lated to public safety; and where such
information is not used for any other
purpose;
(7) Where an operator collects a per-
sistent identifier and no other personal
information and such identifier is used
for the sole purpose of providing sup-
port for the internal operations of the
website or online service. In such case,
the operator shall provide notice under
§ 312.4(d)(3);
(8) Where an operator covered under
paragraph (2) of the definition of
website or online service directed to chil-
dren in § 312.2 collects a persistent iden-
tifier and no other personal informa-
tion from a user who affirmatively
interacts with the operator and whose
previous registration with that oper-
ator indicates that such user is not a
child. In such case, there also shall be
no obligation to provide notice under
§ 312.4; or
(9) Where an operator collects an
audio file containing a child’s voice,
and no other personal information, for
use in responding to a child’s specific
request and where the operator does
not use such information for any other
purpose, does not disclose it, and de-
letes it immediately after responding
to the child’s request. In such case,
there also shall be no obligation to pro-
vide a direct notice, but notice shall be
required under § 312.4(d).
§ 312.6 Right of parent to review per-
sonal information provided by a
child.
(a) Upon request of a parent whose
child has provided personal informa-
tion to a website or online service, the
operator of that website or online serv-
ice is required to provide to that par-
ent the following:
(1) A description of the specific types
or categories of personal information
collected from children by the oper-
ator, such as name, address, telephone
number, email address, hobbies, and ex-
tracurricular activities;
(2) The opportunity at any time to
refuse to permit the operator’s further
use or future online collection of per-
sonal information from that child, and
to direct the operator to delete the
child’s personal information; and
(3) Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, a means of reviewing any
personal information collected from
the child. The means employed by the
operator to carry out this provision
must:
(i) Ensure that the requestor is a par-
ent of that child, taking into account
available technology; and
(ii) Not be unduly burdensome to the
parent.
(b) Neither an operator nor the oper-
ator’s agent shall be held liable under
any Federal or State law for any dis-
closure made in good faith and fol-
lowing reasonable procedures in re-
sponding to a request for disclosure of
personal information under this sec-
tion.
(c) Subject to the limitations set
forth in § 312.7, an operator may termi-
nate any service provided to a child
whose parent has refused, under para-
graph (a)(2) of this section, to permit
the operator’s further use or collection
of personal information from his or her
child or has directed the operator to
delete the child’s personal information.
§ 312.7 Prohibition against condi-
tioning a child’s participation on
collection of personal information.
An operator is prohibited from condi-
tioning a child’s participation in a
game, the offering of a prize, or an-
other activity on the child’s disclosing
more personal information than is rea-
sonably necessary to participate in
such activity.
§ 312.8 Confidentiality, security, and
integrity of personal information
collected from children.
(a) The operator must establish and
maintain reasonable procedures to pro-
tect the confidentiality, security, and
integrity of personal information col-
lected from children.
(b) At a minimum, the operator must
establish, implement, and maintain a
written information security program
that contains safeguards that are ap-
propriate to the sensitivity of the per-
sonal information collected from chil-
dren and the operator’s size, com-
plexity, and nature and scope of activi-
ties. To satisfy this requirement, the
operator must:
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00447 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
438
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 312.9
(1) Designate one or more employees
to coordinate the operator’s informa-
tion security program;
(2) Identify and, at least annually,
perform additional assessments to
identify internal and external risks to
the confidentiality, security, and in-
tegrity of personal information col-
lected from children and the suffi-
ciency of any safeguards in place to
control such risks;
(3) Design, implement, and maintain
safeguards to control risks identified
through the risk assessments required
under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
Each safeguard must be based on the
volume and sensitivity of the chil-
dren’s personal information that is at
risk, and the likelihood that the risk
could result in the unauthorized disclo-
sure, misuse, alteration, destruction or
other compromise of such information;
(4) Regularly test and monitor the ef-
fectiveness of the safeguards in place
to control risks identified through the
risk assessments required under para-
graph (b)(2) of this section; and
(5) At least annually, evaluate and
modify the information security pro-
gram to address identified risks, re-
sults of required testing and moni-
toring, new or more efficient techno-
logical or operational methods to con-
trol for identified risks, or any other
circumstances that an operator knows
or has reason to know may have a ma-
terial impact on its information secu-
rity program or any safeguards in place
to protect personal information col-
lected from children.
(c) Before allowing other operators,
service providers, or third parties to
collect or maintain personal informa-
tion from children on the operator’s be-
half, or before releasing children’s per-
sonal information to such entities, the
operator must take reasonable steps to
determine that such entities are capa-
ble of maintaining the confidentiality,
security, and integrity of the informa-
tion and must obtain written assur-
ances that such entities will employ
reasonable measures to maintain the
confidentiality, security, and integrity
of the information.
§ 312.9 Enforcement.
Subject to sections 6503 and 6505 of
the Children’s Online Privacy Protec-
tion Act of 1998, a violation of a regula-
tion prescribed under section 6502(a) of
this Act shall be treated as a violation
of a rule defining an unfair or decep-
tive act or practice prescribed under
section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade
Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)).
§ 312.10 Data retention and deletion
requirements.
An operator of a website or online
service shall retain personal informa-
tion collected online from a child for
only as long as is reasonably necessary
to fulfill the specific purpose(s) for
which the information was collected.
When such information is no longer
reasonably necessary for the purposes
for which it was collected, the operator
must delete the information using rea-
sonable measures to protect against
unauthorized access to, or use of, the
information in connection with its de-
letion. Personal information collected
online from a child may not be re-
tained indefinitely. At a minimum, the
operator must establish, implement,
and maintain a written data retention
policy that sets forth the purposes for
which children’s personal information
is collected, the business need for re-
taining such information, and a time-
frame for deletion of such information.
The operator must provide its written
data retention policy addressing per-
sonal information collected from chil-
dren in the notice on the website or on-
line service provided in accordance
with § 312.4(d).
§ 312.11 Safe harbor programs.
(a) In general. Industry groups or
other persons may apply to the Com-
mission for approval of self-regulatory
program guidelines (‘‘safe harbor pro-
grams’’). The application shall be filed
with the Commission’s Office of the
Secretary. The Commission will pub-
lish in the FEDERAL REGISTER a docu-
ment seeking public comment on the
application. The Commission shall
issue a written determination within
180 days of the filing of the application.
(b) Criteria for approval of self-regu-
latory program guidelines. Proposed safe
harbor programs must demonstrate
that they meet the following perform-
ance standards:
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00448 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
439
Federal Trade Commission § 312.11
(1) Program requirements that en-
sure operators subject to the self-regu-
latory program guidelines (‘‘subject op-
erators’’) provide substantially the
same or greater protections for chil-
dren as those contained in §§ 312.2
through 312.8, and 312.10.
(2) An effective, mandatory mecha-
nism for the independent assessment of
subject operators’ compliance with the
self-regulatory program guidelines. At
a minimum, this mechanism must in-
clude a comprehensive review by the
safe harbor program, to be conducted
not less than annually, of each subject
operator’s information privacy and se-
curity policies, practices, and represen-
tations. The assessment mechanism re-
quired under this paragraph can be pro-
vided by an independent enforcement
program, such as a seal program.
(3) Disciplinary actions for subject
operators’ non-compliance with self-
regulatory program guidelines. This
performance standard may be satisfied
by:
(i) Mandatory, public reporting of
any action taken against subject oper-
ators by the industry group issuing the
self-regulatory guidelines;
(ii) Consumer redress;
(iii) Voluntary payments to the
United States Treasury in connection
with an industry-directed program for
violators of the self-regulatory guide-
lines;
(iv) Referral to the Commission of
operators who engage in a pattern or
practice of violating the self-regu-
latory guidelines; or
(v) Any other equally effective ac-
tion.
(c) Request for Commission approval of
self-regulatory program guidelines. A pro-
posed safe harbor program’s request for
approval shall be accompanied by the
following:
(1) A detailed explanation of the ap-
plicant’s business model, and the tech-
nological capabilities and mechanisms
that will be used for initial and con-
tinuing assessment of subject opera-
tors’ fitness for membership in the safe
harbor program;
(2) A copy of the full text of the
guidelines for which approval is sought
and any accompanying commentary;
(3) A comparison of each provision of
§§ 312.2 through 312.8, and 312.10 with
the corresponding provisions of the
guidelines; and
(4) A statement explaining:
(i) How the self-regulatory program
guidelines, including the applicable as-
sessment mechanisms, meet the re-
quirements of this part; and
(ii) How the assessment mechanisms
and compliance consequences required
under paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of
this section provide effective enforce-
ment of the requirements of this part.
(d) Reporting and recordkeeping re-
quirements. Approved safe harbor pro-
grams shall:
(1) By October 22, 2025, and annually
thereafter, submit a report to the Com-
mission that identifies each subject op-
erator and all approved websites or on-
line services, as well as any subject op-
erators that have left the safe harbor
program. The report must also contain,
at a minimum:
(i) a narrative description of the safe
harbor program’s business model, in-
cluding whether it provides additional
services such as training to subject op-
erators;
(ii) copies of each consumer com-
plaint related to each subject opera-
tor’s violation of a safe harbor pro-
gram’s guidelines;
(iii) an aggregated summary of the
results of the independent assessments
conducted under paragraph (b)(2) of
this section;
(iv) a description of each disciplinary
action taken against any subject oper-
ator under paragraph (b)(3) of this sec-
tion, as well as a description of the
process for determining whether a sub-
ject operator is subject to discipline;
and
(v) a description of any approvals of
member operators’ use of a parental
consent mechanism, pursuant to
§ 312.5(b)(3);
(2) Promptly respond to Commission
requests for additional information;
(3) Maintain for a period not less
than three years, and upon request
make available to the Commission for
inspection and copying:
(i) Consumer complaints alleging vio-
lations of the guidelines by subject op-
erators;
(ii) Records of disciplinary actions
taken against subject operators; and
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00449 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
440
16 CFR Ch. I (1–1–26 Edition)
§ 312.12
(iii) Results of the independent as-
sessments of subject operators’ compli-
ance required under paragraph (b)(2) of
this section; and
(4) No later than July 21, 2025, pub-
licly post on each of the approved safe
harbor program’s websites and online
services a list of all current subject op-
erators and, for each such operator, list
each certified website or online service.
Approved safe harbor programs shall
update this list every six months there-
after to reflect any changes to the ap-
proved safe harbor programs’ subject
operators or their applicable websites
and online services.
(e) Post-approval modifications to self-
regulatory program guidelines. Approved
safe harbor programs must submit pro-
posed changes to their guidelines for
review and approval by the Commis-
sion in the manner required for initial
approval of guidelines under paragraph
(c)(2) of this section. The statement re-
quired under paragraph (c)(4) of this
section must describe how the proposed
changes affect existing provisions of
the guidelines.
(f) Review of self-regulatory program
guidelines. No later than April 22, 2028,
and every three years thereafter, ap-
proved safe harbor programs shall sub-
mit to the Commission a report detail-
ing the safe harbor program’s techno-
logical capabilities and mechanisms for
assessing subject operators’ fitness for
membership in the safe harbor pro-
gram.
(g) Revocation of approval of self-regu-
latory program guidelines. The Commis-
sion reserves the right to revoke any
approval granted under this section if
at any time it determines that the ap-
proved self-regulatory program guide-
lines or their implementation do not
meet the requirements of this part.
Safe harbor programs shall, by October
22, 2025, submit proposed modifications
to their guidelines.
(h) Operators’ participation in a safe
harbor program. An operator will be
deemed to be in compliance with the
requirements of §§ 312.2 through 312.8,
and 312.10 if that operator complies
with Commission-approved safe harbor
program guidelines. In considering
whether to initiate an investigation or
bring an enforcement action against a
subject operator for violations of this
part, the Commission will take into ac-
count the history of the subject opera-
tor’s participation in the safe harbor
program, whether the subject operator
has taken action to remedy such non-
compliance, and whether the operator’s
non-compliance resulted in any one of
the disciplinary actions set forth in
paragraph (b)(3) of this section.[78 FR
4008, Jan. 17, 2013, as amended at 78 FR
76986, Dec. 20, 2013]
§ 312.12 Voluntary Commission ap-
proval processes.
(a) Parental consent methods. An inter-
ested party may file a written request
for Commission approval of parental
consent methods not currently enu-
merated in § 312.5(b). To be considered
for approval, a party must provide a
detailed description of the proposed pa-
rental consent methods, together with
an analysis of how the methods meet
§ 312.5(b)(1). The request shall be filed
with the Commission’s Office of the
Secretary. The Commission will pub-
lish in the FEDERAL REGISTER a docu-
ment seeking public comment on the
request. The Commission shall issue a
written determination within 120 days
of the filing of the request.
(b) Support for the internal operations
of the website or online service. An inter-
ested party may file a written request
for Commission approval of additional
activities to be included within the def-
inition of support for the internal oper-
ations of the website or online service.
To be considered for approval, a party
must provide a detailed justification
why such activities should be deemed
support for the internal operations of
the website or online service, and an
analysis of their potential effects on
children’s online privacy. The request
shall be filed with the Commission’s
Office of the Secretary. The Commis-
sion will publish in the FEDERAL REG-
ISTER a document seeking public com-
ment on the request. The Commission
shall issue a written determination
within 120 days of the filing of the re-
quest.
§ 312.13 Severability.
The provisions of this part are sepa-
rate and severable from one another. If
any provision is stayed or determined
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00450 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
441
Federal Trade Commission § 313.1
to be invalid, it is the Commission’s in-
tention that the remaining provisions
shall continue in effect.
PART 313—PRIVACY OF CON-
SUMER FINANCIAL INFORMA-
TION
Sec.
313.1 Purpose and scope.
313.2 Model privacy form and examples.
313.3 Definitions.
Subpart A—Privacy and Opt Out Notices
313.4 Initial privacy notice to consumers re-
quired.
313.5 Annual privacy notice to customers
required.
313.6 Information to be included in privacy
notices.
313.7 Form of opt out notice to consumers;
opt out methods.
313.8 Revised privacy notices.
313.9 Delivering privacy and opt out no-
tices.
Subpart B—Limits on Disclosures
313.10 Limitation on disclosure of nonpublic
personal information to nonaffiliated
third parties.
313.11 Limits on redisclosure and reuse of
information.
313.12 Limits on sharing account number in-
formation for marketing purposes.
Subpart C—Exceptions
313.13 Exception to opt out requirements for
service providers and joint marketing.
313.14 Exceptions to notice and opt out re-
quirements for processing and servicing
transactions.
313.15 Other exceptions to notice and opt
out requirements.
Subpart D—Relation to Other Laws;
Effective Date
313.16 Protection of Fair Credit Reporting
Act.
313.17 Relation to State laws.
APPENDIX A TO PART 313—MODEL PRIVACY
FORM
AUTHORITY: 15 U.S.C. 6801 et seq., 12 U.S.C.
5519.
SOURCE: 65 FR 33677, May 24, 2000, unless
otherwise noted.
§ 313.1 Purpose and scope.
(a) Purpose. This part governs the
treatment of nonpublic personal infor-
mation about consumers by the finan-
cial institutions listed in paragraph (b)
of this section. This part:
(1) Requires a financial institution in
specified circumstances to provide no-
tice to customers about its privacy
policies and practices;
(2) Describes the conditions under
which a financial institution may dis-
close nonpublic personal information
about consumers to nonaffiliated third
parties; and
(3) Provides a method for consumers
to prevent a financial institution from
disclosing that information to most
nonaffiliated third parties by ‘‘opting
out’’ of that disclosure, subject to the
exceptions in §§ 313.13, 313.14, and 313.15.
(b) Scope. This part applies only to
nonpublic personal information about
individuals who obtain financial prod-
ucts or services primarily for personal,
family or household purposes from the
institutions listed below. This part
does not apply to information about
companies or about individuals who ob-
tain financial products or services for
business, commercial, or agricultural
purposes. This part applies to those
‘‘financial institutions’’ over which the
Federal Trade Commission (‘‘Commis-
sion’’) has rulemaking authority pursu-
ant to section 504(a)(1)(C) of the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. An entity is
a ‘‘financial institution’’ if its business
is engaging in an activity that is finan-
cial in nature or incidental to such fi-
nancial activities as described in sec-
tion 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company
Act of 1956, 12 U.S.C. 1843(k), which in-
corporates activities enumerated by
the Federal Reserve Board in 12 CFR
225.28 and 225.86. The ‘‘financial institu-
tions’’ subject to the Commission’s
rulemaking authority are any persons
described in 12 U.S.C. 5519 that are pre-
dominantly engaged in the sale and
servicing of motor vehicles, the leasing
and servicing of motor vehicles, or
both. They are referred to in this part
as ‘‘You.’’ Excluded from the coverage
of this part are motor vehicle dealers
described in 12 U.S.C. 5519(b) that di-
rectly extend to consumers retail cred-
it or retail leases involving motor vehi-
cles in which the contract governing
such extension of retail credit or retail
leases is not routinely assigned to an
VerDate Sep<11>2014 11:35 Aug 25, 2026 Jkt 268056 PO 00000 Frm 00451 Fmt 8010 Sfmt 8010 Y:\SGML\268056.XXX 268056
jgilmore
on
DSK4WB1RN3PROD
with
CFR
