Skip to main content 










An official website of the United States government



Here’s how you know





Here’s how you know 










Official websites use .gov 


A .gov website belongs to an official government
organization in the United States.










Secure .gov websites use HTTPS 


A lock (

Lock 
A locked padlock 

) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
secure websites.



























Menu 









- Curriculum & Programs

- Independent Study
- Independent Study Program

- IS Course List

- NDEMU Student Portal

- General Information

- IS Help Desk

- Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience

- Professional Development Series

- Useful Documents & Forms

- Popular IS Courses
- Introduction to the Incident Command System - ICS 100

- Basic Incident Command System for Initial Response - ICS-200

- An Introduction to the National Incident Management System

- National Response Framework - An Introduction

- Fundamentals of Emergency Management

- Basic Emergency Operations Center Functions

- An Introduction to Hazardous Materials

- An Introduction to Exercises

- Emergency Planning

- Independent Study FAQ

- IS Help Desk






- About NDEMU

- Contact Us






Search small 

Search 




























Independent Study Program




Self-paced courses designed for people who have emergency management responsibilities and the general public












Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)






What is the NDEMU Student Portal?
Answer:
The NDEMU Student Portal allows students to view their course completions as well as print certificates and/or an unofficial student transcript. In addition, students can request an official transcript from the FEMA Independent Study Program (FEMA ISP) office.  For more information review the FEMA ISP Information page.

Where do I go for FEMA Student Identification Number (FEMA SID) Questions?
Answer:
Independent Study Exams require a FEMA Student Identification Number (FEMA SID). The Center for Domestic Preparedness (CDP) is the issuing agency for this number.  To register/retrieve your FEMA SID number or for further assistance with your FEMA SID account, please visit the FEMA SID website .

Where do I go for Login.gov questions?
Answer:
Independent Study Exams use Login.gov to allow you to sign in safely and securely. Login.gov is not managed by the Independent Study Program .

For assistance with your Login.gov account, please visit the Login.gov Help Center . You can also contact the Login.gov Helpdesk at 844-875-6446 or submit a help ticket at Contact Login.gov .

Do I need to apply for a FEMA Student Identification Number (FEMA SID) to complete Independent Study (IS) courses?
Answer:
Yes. As of April 1, 2015, the FEMA Student Identification Number (FEMA SID) is required. Please visit the FEMA SID website to obtain a FEMA SID.

Students who have taken courses in the past under their social security number can contact the Independent Study Program (ISP) office at 301-447-1200 or [email protected] to have their records merged under their FEMA SID number.

When will I receive my certificate?
Answer:
Upon successful completion of an Independent Study (IS) exam, your training record is updated in the NDEMU Student Portal where you can view, download, save and print your electronic certificate and/or student transcript immediately. An email will also be sent with this information for your records. Completion documents are in Portable Document Format (PDF) files and require Adobe Reader. If you do not have this software, it can be obtained as a free download at http://www.adobe.com .

Is there anywhere on the website that I can view my Independent Study (IS) completions? How can I get a record of my IS course completions?
Answer:
Yes! Completion certificates or a student transcript can be obtained by visiting the NDEMU Student Portal .

To download individual course completion certificates, log in to the NDEMU Student Portal and click on the IS Course Certificates option, then click on each course title.

To download an unofficial student transcript, log in to the NDEMU Student Portal and click on the Student IS Transcript option.

You cannot request an Official Transcript by phone. To request an Official Transcript to be sent to an educational institution for accreditation purposes, login to the NDEMU Student Portal and click on the Official IS Transcript option.

*Please note that transcripts issued by the Independent Study Program (ISP) do NOT reflect college credits.

Do I need a username/password to take Independent Study (IS) courses?
Answer:
A username is NOT required to complete an IS course. You will sign into the exam with the email address and password associated with your Login.gov account.  Please see the How do I take an Independent Study course online FAQ for more information.

Where do I go for FEMA Independent Study Program (FEMA ISP) questions not connected with a FEMA Student Identification Number (FEMA SID)?
Answer:
If you have an inquiry regarding the Independent Study Program (ISP) not related to a FEMA SID such as: requests for certificates/transcripts, or exam/portal issues, please contact the Independent Study Program (ISP) office at 301-447-1200 or email [email protected] for further assistance. Please do not contact the FEMA SID Help Desk as they are unable to assist with these requests.

Who can take FEMA's Independent Study (IS) Courses? Who can teach IS Courses?
Answer:
The primary audience for the Independent Study Program (ISP) is first responders, EMS personnel and US citizens. ISP has no requirements for instructors to teach our courses; however, we do suggest the instructor reviews the course and passes the online exam to become familiar with the material. All exams must be submitted online on the Independent Study website .

I need to request Independent Study (IS) course completion information for someone else. What do I do?
Answer:
Due to the Privacy Act, we no longer accept third party requests for completion verification, certificate reissue, or transcripts. Please have the student contact the FEMA Independent Study Program (FEMA ISP) office directly at 301-447-1200 or [email protected] for assistance.

I need to take ICS-300/ICS-400 course(s). Where can I complete this training?
Answer:
ICS-300 and ICS-400 can be taught on campus, in the field or at the state-level; therefore, we recommend contacting your State Training Office (STO) for course training information.

I completed ICS-300/ICS-400 course(s). How do I get my certificates?
Answer:
ICS-300 and ICS-400 courses are not administered by the FEMA Independent Study Program (FEMA ISP); therefore, we do not maintain completion records.

ICS-300 and ICS-400 can be taught on campus, in the field or at the state-level; therefore, we recommend contacting the agency that provided your training to inquire about those certificates.

Can I see the questions I missed on an Independent Study (IS) Exam? What was my score?
Answer:
Exams are scored in an automated system to eliminate the opportunity for scoring errors. To maintain the integrity of our courses, we do not distribute test scores or questions missed. Our exams are based upon pass/fail criteria with the benchmark for successful completion set at 75%. Our program does not limit your exam attempts. Please be aware that online exams are scrambled, and the questions may change when you take the final exam. Be sure to read test questions and answer choices carefully.

I am in charge of my church's safety and security team. There has been a real movement over the past year for many churches in our area and other places as well to establish these teams. Local LEO's and some EMA folks are behind this as well. We are looking for guidance and training.
Answer:
Great to see emergency planning for houses of worship.

EMI maintains an Independent Study (IS) course titled IS-360 Preparing for Mass Casualty Incidents: A Guide for Schools, Higher Education, and Houses of Worship . The course provides resources from many organizations to include private sector.

How to Assess the Safety and Security of Your Place of Worship is one resource some have found helpful, but there are many other resources provided in this course.

Another Independent Study course, IS-907 Active Shooter: What You Can Do includes additional resources.

What should I do if I have problems downloading materials or submitting my Independent Study (IS) exam. What are the technical system requirements needed to complete my courses?
Answer:
Make sure you are using a supported web browser and a standard desktop or laptop computer. Mobile devices are not recommended.  In addition, please review our Technical System Requirements .

If the problem persists, please contact the FEMA Independent Study Program (FEMA ISP) office at 301-447-1200 or email [email protected] with a detailed error description.

How do I report improper conduct or cheating on Independent Study (IS) exams?
Answer:
Organizations/Agencies are encouraged to institute procedures to ensure that students are completing the exams for IS courses through their own individual efforts.
Individuals within an organization who feel that exam answers are being improperly provided should follow that organization's procedures for reporting unethical conduct. 
If a student is found to have cheated on an IS exam, the penalty may include, but is not limited to:




- expulsion


- foreclosure from future classes for a specified period


- forfeiture of certificate for course(s) enrolled in at NDEMU, NETC or NTC


- or all the above





A letter notifying the student's sponsor of the individual's misconduct will be sent by the appropriate official at NDEMU/NETC. Upon written request by the individual's sponsor, information from and/or copies of the statements from the individual and witnesses, police reports, and NDEMU, NETC or NTC security reports may be made available to the individual's sponsor for the purpose of determining if disciplinary action is appropriate by the sponsoring organization.

Are NDEMU Course materials copyrighted?
Answer:
Unless otherwise indicated in the course materials, under 17 USC § 105 these government produced materials are not afforded copyright protection and are within the public domain. Changes to original NDEMU content are not authorized by NDEMU. When using NDEMU curriculum materials or portions thereof, agencies, organizations and individuals should cite NDEMU as the originator of the material. The materials should not be used or displayed by non-federal entities in a manner or way which states or implies endorsement of a user’s products or services by the Federal Government.

What do these course codes (E, G, IS, K, L, Q, V) indicate?
Answer:


E

Resident courses held at the NETC campus




G

State/Local/Tribal Field-delivered courses




IS

Independent Study courses




K

Resident courses held via Adobe Connect




L

Resident courses held off-site




Q

National Fire Academy (NFA) online courses




V

Resident courses held via Video Teleconference (VTC)






How do I take an Independent Study (IS) course online?
Answer:
Click on the Independent Study Program (IS) Course List and select your course from the list.

Review course materials by choosing any one of the options in the "Take This Course" box on the right-hand side of the page.

Submit your final exam online. You will be enrolled in the course when you submit your final exam answers online.

Upon successful completion of an Independent Study (IS) exam, your training record is updated in the NDEMU Student Portal where you can view, download, save and print your electronic certificate and/or student transcript immediately. An email will also be sent with this information for your records.

How will I know when new courses are released, or a course has been revised? Can I get on a list that will allow me to receive notification when new Independent Study (IS) courses are available?
Answer:
You may sign-up for our GovDelivery service to receive the latest news on new and updated courses. To sign up or to access your subscriber preferences, please enter your e-mail address.  We also recommend that you visit the Independent Study website frequently. As new courses become available, they will be posted there.

How can I pursue a degree in emergency management?
Answer:
Visit Higher Education Program and choose "College List" from the menu on the left side of the page. There you will find information on college and university-based programs in emergency management, homeland security and related fields.

Which Independent Study Courses are included in the Professional Development Series (PDS)? When I complete all the courses in the PDS Series, what do I need to do to receive my certificate?
Answer:
The Professional Development Series (PDS) includes seven Independent Study (IS) courses that provide a well-rounded set of fundamentals for those in the emergency management profession. After completion of all the courses in the Professional Development Curriculum , a PDS certificate will be available for download in the NDEMU Student Portal .

What are Continuing Education Units (CEUs) and how are they calculated?
Answer:
Independent Study (IS) courses are evaluated, accredited and awarded CEUs in accordance with the standards established by the International Association of Continuing Education and Training (IACET).   CEUs are calculated as follows:  0.1 CEU = 1 Contact Hour or 1 hour of instruction/learning.  The CEUs assigned to each course are provided on the Independent Study (IS) Course List .

Acceptance of CEUs towards certification, recertification or license renewal is decided by the organization who requires the training (continuing education). The Independent Study Program (ISP) Office does not place restrictions on the use of the CEUs obtained by participants.














Return to top 











- 
Get Started 



- 
NDEMU Schools 



- 
Curriculum & Programs 



- 
More Resources 



- 
About NDEMU 
























Facebook 





Instagram 





Twitter 





YouTube 





LinkedIn 





Newsletter 








Contact NDEMU 





























logo" role="img"> 



training.fema.gov


An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security 














- Accessibility


- Accountability


- Careers


- Civil Rights


- Contact Us


- FOIA


- Glossary


- No FEAR Act


- Plug-Ins


- Privacy


- Report Disaster Fraud


- Website Information


- DHS.gov


- USA.gov


- Inspector General