FEMA Emergency Management Institute

National Incident
Management System
(NIMS) 2017
Learning Materials

Slide 1

NIMS 2017 Learning Materials Purpose
• In October 2017 FEMA published a revision of the National Incident
Management System (NIMS).
• The 2017 NIMS document replaces the 2008 NIMS.
• This content is to provide information to emergency management
practitioners on the key changes contained in the new NIMS 2017
document.
• These learning materials are provided as a “bridge” to deliver interim
NIMS 2017 document refresh information until updated NIMS courses
are available.
• This is not intended as stand-alone training on NIMS. This content is
designed as a supplement to be used in conjunction with existing legacy
NIMS/ ICS course materials in order to provide students with additional
information on key NIMS 2017 changes.

Slide 2

NIMS 2017 Update Training Topics
o NIMS 2017 History
o NIMS 2017 Overview
o NIMS 2017 Changes
• NIMS Fundamentals and Concepts of NIMS
• Resource Management
• Command and Coordination
• Communications and Information Management
o NIMS Course Updates
o Sources of Additional NIMS Information

Slide 3

NIMS 2017 – Update History
• FEMA led, whole community effort to update NIMS
• Retains key concepts and principles from 2004 and 2008 NIMS
• Incorporates policy updates from lessons learned from exercises and
real-world incidents and disasters
• National engagement to review the NIMS document produced
thousands of comments from whole community stakeholders
• Input from local, state, tribal and Federal subject matter experts
• Comments were adjudicated by an interdisciplinary panel
• Approved changes were incorporated into NIMS published in 2017

Slide 4

NIMS 2017 – Overview (1 of 2)
NIMS 2017 strengthens guidance for effective incident management:
 Reflects and incorporates policy updates from lessons learned from
exercises and real-world incidents and disasters
 Clarifies the processes and terminology for qualifying, certifying, and
credentialing incident personnel, building a foundation for the
development of a national qualification system
 Removes the Preparedness component of NIMS to avoid redundancy
with the National Preparedness System and Goal
 Clarifies that NIMS is more than just Incident Command System (ICS),
and that it applies to all incident personnel, from the incident command
post to the National Response Coordination Center
 Demonstrates the applicability of NIMS to all five mission areas
(Prevention, Protection, Mitigation, Response and Recovery)
 Adds guidance on the Intelligence and Investigations function

Slide 5

NIMS 2017 – Overview (2 of 2)
• Refines the model for the Operational Period Planning Cycle
• Provides expanded EOC guidance based on input from local, state,
tribal and territorial EOC leaders
• Describes common functions and terminology for staff in Emergency
Operations Centers (EOC), while remaining flexible to allow for
differing missions, authorities, and resources of EOCs across the
Nation
• Explains the relationship among Incident Command Structure (ICS),
Emergency Operation Centers (EOCs), and senior leaders/ policy
groups (Multiagency Coordination Group)
• Enhances guidance on information management processes

Slide 6

NIMS 2008-2017 Comparison
NIMS

2008

Component

Contents

1

Preparedness

2

Communications and
Information Management

3

Resource Management

4

Command and
Management
• Incident Command
System (ICS)
• Multiagency Coordination
System (MACS)
• Public Information

5

Ongoing Management and
Maintenance

Elements
of both
the
structure
and
content
of NIMS
have
been
changed
in the
NIMS
2017
update

NIMS

2017

Component

Contents

1

Fundamentals and Concepts
of NIMS

2

Resource Management

3

Command and Coordination
• Incident Command System
(ICS)
• Emergency Operations
Centers (EOC)
• Multiagency Coordination
Group (MAC Group)
• Joint Information System
(JIS)

4

Communications and
Information Management

Slide 7

NIMS 2017 Component 1:
Fundamentals and Concepts
Component includes:
• High-level summary of NIMS

2008 NIMS
• Flexibility

• Brief history of NIMS

• Standardization

• NIMS guiding principles:
•

Flexibility

•

Standardization

• Unity of Effort (new NIMS
Guiding Principle)

2017 NIMS
• Flexibility
• Standardization
• Unity of Effort

• Overview of the NIMS
components

Slide 8

NIMS Guiding Principles – Unity of Effort
• Flexibility and Standardization should be
familiar to you from NIMS 2008.
• Unity of Effort is a third NIMS Guiding Principle
added in NIMS 2017.
• Unity of effort means coordinating activities
among various organizations to achieve
common objectives. Unity of effort enables
organizations with specific jurisdictional
responsibilities to support each other while
maintaining their own authorities.

Slide 9

Overview of NIMS Components (1 of 2)
NIMS 2008 defined five NIMS Components: Preparedness,
Communications and Information Management, Resource
Management, Command and Management, and Ongoing
Management and Maintenance.
NIMS 2017 defines three NIMS framework components which enable
diverse organizations to integrate capabilities and achieve shared
goals:
• Resource Management
• Command and Coordination
• Communications and Information Management

Slide 10

Overview of NIMS Components (2 of 2)
Definitions of the three NIMS framework components:
• Resource Management describes standard mechanisms to
systematically manage resources, including personnel, equipment,
supplies, teams, and facilities, both before and during incidents in order
to allow organizations to more effectively share resources when
needed.
• Command and Coordination describes leadership roles, processes,
and recommended organizational structures for incident management
at the operational and incident support levels and explains how these
structures interact to manage incidents effectively and efficiently.
• Communications and Information Management describes systems
and methods that help to ensure that incident personnel and other
decision makers have the means and information they need to make
and communicate decisions.

Slide 11

NIMS 2017 Component 2:
Resource Management
• Reorganizes key resource
management activities to address
resource planning (pre-incident)
resource management activities
(during incidents), and mutual aid
• Establishes a foundation for a
national qualification system by
clarifying processes for qualifying,
certifying and credentialing incident
personnel
• Emphasizes the role of the Authority
Having Jurisdiction (AHJ)

2008 NIMS
• Concepts and Principles
• Managing Resources
2017 NIMS
• Resource Management
Preparedness
• Resource Management
During an Incident
• Mutual Aid

Slide 12

Resource Typing
Resource typing establishes common definitions for capabilities of
personnel, equipment, teams, supplies, and facilities. Typing definitions
include the following information:
• Capability: the core capability for which the resource is most useful
• Category: the function for which a resource would most likely be used
such as firefighting, law enforcement, health and medical, etc.
• Kind: a broad classification such as personnel, teams, facilities,
equipment and supplies
• Type: a resource’s level of minimum capability to perform its function;
based on size, power, capacity (for equipment) or experience and
qualifications (for personnel or teams)
The Resource Typing Library Tool (RTLT) is an online catalog of NIMS resource typing definitions
and job titles/position qualifications available through the FEMA website (link provided at the end of
this presentation).

Slide 13

Credentialing
Qualifying, certifying and credentialing are essential steps, led by an
Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) to help ensure that deploying
emergency management personnel can perform their assigned role.
• Qualification: personnel meet minimum established criteria training, experience, physical and medical fitness, capability – to fill
specific positions
• Certification/Recertification: recognition from an AHJ or a third
party stating that an individual is qualified for a specific position
• Credentialing: documentation from an AHJ or a third party, usually
in the form of an identification card or badge, that identifies personnel
and verifies their qualifications for a particular position

Slide 14

Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ)
• The AHJ is a public or private sector entity that has the legal
authority to establish and administer processes to qualify, certify, and
credential personnel for incident-related positions.
• The AHJ may be a state or Federal agency, training commission,
NGO, private sector company, or a tribal or local agency such as a
police, fire, or public health department.
• The AHJ derives authority to credential from the elected official or, in
the private sector, from the senior executive.

Slide 15

NIMS Qualification, Certification and
Credentialing Process
• The NIMS qualification, certification and
credentialing process supports sharing of
personnel resources for mutual aid.
• Nationally standardized criteria and minimum
qualifications for positions provide a consistent
baseline for qualifying and credentialing the
incident workforce.
• This is a decentralized process that relies on
Authorities Having Jurisdiction (AHJ).
• Each jurisdictional authority develops,
implements, maintains, and oversees the
qualification, certification, and credentialing
process within its organization or jurisdiction.

Slide 16

Resources - Preparedness Activities
• Before an incident jurisdictions and organizations develop resource
plans.
• This resource planning includes identifying resource requirements
based on an assessment of threats and vulnerabilities and
developing strategies to obtain the needed resources.
• Resource management strategies include stockpiling resources,
establishing mutual aid agreements to obtain resources from
neighboring jurisdictions, determining approaches to reassigning
resources from non-essential tasks, and developing contracts to
rapidly acquire resources from vendors when needed.
• A resource inventory is used to track resource availability and
enables organizations to acquire resources promptly when needed
for an incident.

Slide 17

Resources - Activities During an Incident
• The resource management
process is the six resource
management tasks performed in
an incident.
• The resource management
process includes methods to
identify requirements, order and
acquire, mobilize, track and
report, demobilize and reimburse
and restock resources in an
incident.

Slide 18

Mutual Aid
Mutual Aid Agreements and Compacts
• Establish the legal basis for two or more entities to share resources
• Address issues including liability, compensation and procedures
• Exist between communities, tribal governments non-governmental
organizations and the private sector, within a state, between states,
between Federal agencies, and internationally
Mutual Aid Process
• A request for resources is received from requesting jurisdiction.
• The request is evaluated by the providing jurisdiction to determine if
they can accommodate a temporary loss of the resource.
• If the providing jurisdiction can accommodate the request, they
deploy the resource to the requesting jurisdiction.

Slide 19

NIMS 2017 Component 3: Command and
Coordination
• Defines the fourteen NIMS
Management Characteristics
• Describes four NIMS Command
and Coordination structures:
 Incident Command System
(ICS)
 Emergency Operations
Centers (EOCs)
 Multiagency Coordination
Group (MAC Group)
 Joint Information System
(JIS)

2008 - Command and Management
• Incident Command System (ICS)
• Multiagency Coordination System
(MACS)
• Public Information
2017 – Command and Coordination
• Multi-Agency Coordination Systems
(MACS):
 ICS
 EOCs
 MAC Group
 JIS

Slide 20

NIMS Management Characteristics
NIMS bases incident management and coordination on fourteen NIMS
Management Characteristics (formerly called ICS Management
Characteristics)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Common Terminology
Modular Organization
Management by Objectives
Incident Action Planning
Manageable Span of Control
Incident Facilities and Locations
Comprehensive Resource Management
Integrated Communications
Establishment and Transfer of Command
Unified Command
Chain of Command and Unity of Command
Accountability
Dispatch/ Deployment
Information and Intelligence Management

The name is new but the 14 characteristics remain the same

Slide 21

NIMS Command and Coordination Structures –
Incident Command System (ICS)
• The Incident Command System (ICS) is
used for on-scene Management of
Incidents
• When an incident occurs or threatens,
local emergency personnel manage
response using ICS

Slide 22

Incident Command System Changes
• Revised description of the Intelligence/ Investigations function
• Revised “Manageable Span of Control” guidance
• Made revisions to the incident planning process to align with
processes in use within the emergency management community
• Consistent use of the term “Incident Management Team” to
refer to pre-rostered teams that may be assigned to an incident.
• Includes list of possible command advisors, including Legal
Counsel, Medical Advisor, and Access and Functional Needs
Advisor.
• Added “resource team” as an alternative law enforcement term
for a “strike team”.

Slide 23

Manageable Span of Control
NIMS 2008 states that “in ICS, the span of control of any individual
with incident management supervisory responsibility should range
from 3 to 7 subordinates, with 5 being optimal. During a large-scale
law enforcement operation, 8 to 10 subordinates may be optimal.“
NIMS 2017 adjusts this guidance to provide more flexibility and allow
for factors such as supervisory experience and the nature of the
work.
“The optimal span of control for incident management is one
supervisor to five subordinates; however, effective incident
management frequently necessitates ratios significantly different
from this. The 1:5 ratio is a guideline, and incident personnel use
their best judgment to determine the actual distribution of
subordinates to supervisors for a given incident or EOC activation.”

Slide 24

Incident Command System Structure
INCIDENT
COMMANDER

ICS still includes five major
functional areas:
• Command
• Operations
• Planning
• Logistics
• Finance/Administration.

PUBLIC
INFORMATION
OFFICER

SAFETY OFFICER

LIAISON OFFICER

OPERATIONS
SECTION CHIEF

PLANNING
SECTION CHIEF

LOGISTICS
SECTION CHIEF

FINANCE/
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION CHIEF

Slide 25

Intelligence/ Investigations Placement in ICS

The Intelligence/ Investigations (I/I) function may be used for incidents involving
intensive intelligence gathering and investigative activities. The IC/UC can place the I/I
function in multiple locations within the incident command structure based on factors
such as the nature of the incident, the level of I/I activity, and the relationship of I/I to
other incident activities. The I/I function can be placed in the Planning Section, in the
Operations Section, within the Command Staff, as a separate General Staff section,
or in some combination of these locations.

Slide 26

Incident Management Team (IMT)
Incident Management Assistance Team (IMAT)
IMT: IMTs are rostered groups of ICS-qualified personnel, consisting of
an Incident Commander, other incident leadership, and personnel
qualified for other key ICS positions. IMTs exist at local, regional, state,
tribal, and national levels and have formal notification, deployment, and
operational procedures in place. IMTs can be delegated the authority to
act on behalf of the affected jurisdiction or organization.
IMAT: Some IMTs are referred to as Incident Management Assistance
Teams (IMAT) to clarify that they support on-scene personnel and/or the
affected jurisdiction(s). IMATs exist at various levels of government and
within the private sector. As an example, FEMA IMATs deploy to incidents
to help identify and provide Federal assistance, and coordinate and
integrate inter-jurisdictional response in support of an affected state or
tribe.

Slide 27

Incident Action Planning
The Operational Period Planning Cycle is a formal planning cycle
with established meetings and deliverables for an operational period.
NIMS 2017 Planning “P” Changes:
• Adds “Agency Administrator Briefing (If Appropriate)”
• Adds “Strategy Meeting/ Command and General Staff Meeting (if
necessary)”
• Adds “Understanding the Situation (Ongoing)” to the center of the
graphic

Slide 28

Operational Period
Planning Cycle
The Planning “P”

Slide 29

NIMS Command and Coordination Structures –
Emergency Operations Centers (EOCs)
• Emergency Operations Centers (EOCs) are
used for the offsite support to on-scene ICS
operations.
• If the incident is large or complex, local
Emergency Operations Centers activate.
• NIMS 2017 provides expanded guidance on
EOC structures and activation levels.

Slide 30

Emergency Operations Centers (EOCs)
• NIMS 2017 EOC content was developed with input from EOC leaders
across the nation.
• NIMS 2017 describes common functions, examples of organizational
structure and terminology for staff in EOCs.
• ICS is used to manage on-scene, tactical-level response; EOCs are
used to manage off-scene support to ICS.
• Common EOC functions include information management, resource
management, and communicating policy decisions.

Slide 31

Emergency Operations Centers (EOCs) –
Expanded NIMS 2017 EOC Content
• Jurisdictions and organizations across the Nation use EOCs
• EOCs are locations where staff from multiple agencies assemble to
provide coordinated support to incident command, on-scene
personnel, and/or other EOCs.
• The purpose, authorities, and composition of the teams that staff
EOCs vary widely, but generally, the teams consolidate and exchange
information, support decision making, coordinate resources, and
communicate with personnel on scene and at other EOCs.
•

NIMS 2017 identifies three common ways of organizing EOC Teams:
1. ICS or ICS-like structure
2. Incident Support Model structure
3. Departmental structure

Slide 32

EOC Structures (1 of 3)
ICS or ICS-like EOC Structure
EOC DIRECTOR

PUBLIC
INFORMATION
OFFICER

OPERATIONS
COORDINATION
SECTION

PLANNING
COORDINATION
SECTION

LOGISTICS
COORDINATION
SECTION

FINANCE/
ADMINISTRATION
COORDINATION
SECTION

Many jurisdictions/organizations configure their EOCs using the
standard ICS organizational structure. The structure is familiar to many
people, and it aligns with the on-scene incident organization.

Slide 33

EOC Structures (2 of 3)
Incident Support Model (ISM) EOC Structure
EOC
DIRECTOR

PUBLIC
INFORMATION
OFFICER
SITUATIONAL
AWARENESS
SECTION

PLANNING
SUPPORT
SECTION

RESOURCES
SUPPORT
SECTION

CENTER
SUPPORT
SECTION

Jurisdictions/organizations that focus their EOC team’s efforts on
information, planning, and resource support may choose to separate the
situational awareness function from planning and combine operations
and logistics functions into an incident support structure.

Slide 34

EOC Structures (3 of 3)
Departmental EOC Structure

Emergency
Manager

Department of
Natural
Resources

Department of
Health & Human
Services

Department of
Public Works

Department of
Public Safety

Department of
Administration

Department of
Education

Jurisdictions/organizations may opt instead to use their day-to-day
departmental/agency structure and relationships in their EOC. By
operating in the context of their normal relationships, department/agency
representatives can function in the EOC with minimal preparation or
startup time.

Slide 35

EOC Activation and Deactivation
• EOCs are activated for various reasons based on the needs of a
jurisdiction, organization, or Incident Commander; the context of a
threat; the anticipation of events; or in response to an incident.
• EOCs frequently have multiple activation levels to allow for a scaled
response, delivery of the needed resources, and a level of
coordination appropriate to the incident.
• The next slide outlines the three activation levels in NIMS 2017:

Slide 36

EOC Center Activation Levels
Level

Activation
Level Title

3

Normal
Operations/
Steady-State

2

Enhanced
Steady State/
Partial
Activation

1

Full Activation

Description
●
●

Activities that are normal for the center, when no incident or
specific risk or hazard has been identified, are underway.
This includes routine watch and warning activities if the center
normally houses this function.

●

Certain EOC Team members/ organizations are activated to
monitor a credible threat, risk or hazard and/or to support the
response to a new and potentially evolving incident.

●

EOC team is activated, including personnel from all assisting
agencies, to support the response to a major incident or
credible threat.

Slide 37

NIMS Command and Coordination Structures –
Multiagency Coordination Group (MAC Group)

• Multiagency Coordination Groups (MAC
Group) are composed of agency
administrators, executives or their
designees.
• Also referred to as policy groups
• MAC Groups provide offsite support of
ICS and EOC organizations through:
 High level strategic policy guidance
 Scarce resource allocation

Slide 38

Describing the MAC Group
• Multi Agency Coordination (MAC) Groups are part of the off-site
incident management structure of NIMS.
• MAC Group members are typically agency administrators or senior
executives from stakeholder agencies impacted by and with resources
committed to the incident.
• The MAC Group may also include representatives from nongovernmental organizations.
• During incidents MAC Groups act as a policy-level body, support
resource prioritization and allocation, make cooperative multi-agency
decisions and enable decision making among elected and appointed
officials with those managing the incident (IC/UC).
• MAC Groups do not perform incident command functions.
• MAC Groups do not replace the primary functions of operations,
coordination, or dispatch organizations.

Slide 39

NIMS Command and Coordination Structures –
Joint Information System (JIS)
• The Joint Information System (JIS) is the
fourth NIMS Command and Coordination
structure.
• JIS integrates incident information and
public affairs to provide consistent,
coordinated, accurate, accessible, timely
and complete information to the public
and stakeholders during incident
operations.
• JIS operates across and supports the
other NIMS structures: ICS, EOCs and
MAC Group

Slide 40

JIS Activities
JIS activities include:
• Coordinating interagency messaging
• Developing, recommending and executing public information plans and
strategies
• Advising the Incident Commander or Unified Command, MAC Group
and EOC director on public affairs issues
• Addressing and managing rumors and inaccurate information
A Joint Information Center (JIC) manages these JIS activities

Slide 41

What Happened to
Multiagency Coordination Systems (MACS)?
• NIMS 2008 defined MACS as “the architecture to support coordination
for incident prioritization, critical resource allocation communications
systems integration and information coordination.” EOCs and MAC
Groups were elements of MACS.
• NIMS 2017 defines MACS as “an overarching term for the NIMS
Command and Coordination systems: ICS, EOCs, MAC Group/ policy
groups and JISs.”
This broadens the definition of MACS to include the Command and
Coordination architecture for tactical coordination (ICS), operational
support coordination (EOCs), policy level coordination (MAC Group) and
their support through coordinated information (JIS).

Slide 42

NIMS 2017 Component 4:
Communications and Information Management
2008 NIMS

2017 NIMS

 Concepts and Principles

 Communications Management

 Management Characteristics

 Incident Information

 Organization and Operations

 Communications Standards and Formats

• Enhances information
management processes:
• Expands guidance on data
collection plans
• Integrates social media
considerations
• Highlights the use of geographic
information systems (GIS)

Slide 43

Communications and Information Management
NIMS 2017 adds “Security” as a fourth key principle of communications
and information systems.
• The four key principles are now (1) Interoperability; (2) Reliability,
Scalability, and Portability; (3) Resilience and Redundancy; and (4)
Security.
• Security: Some information is sensitive… Incident personnel should
work with IT and security experts to incorporate data, network, and
systems protection best practices into incident communications and
data sharing.
NIMS 2017 provides enhanced guidance on information management
processes to improve data collection plans, social media integration
and the use of geographic information systems.

Slide 44

NIMS Training Updates
• Core EMI NIMS, ICS and EOC courses are in revision based on the
NIMS 2017 publication
• Current NIMS/ ICS courses will remain active until revised courses are
available
• EMI courses affected by changes in the NIMS 2017 are scheduled for
revision during 2018

Slide 45

Sequence of NIMS Course Updates
The first three EMI courses with updated NIMS content will be:
• IS 0100: ICS-100 Incident Command System (ICS)
• IS 0700: National Incident Management System (NIMS)
• IS 0800: National Response Framework (NRF)
Revision of additional courses for ICS and EOCs will follow.

Slide 46

Incident Command System (ICS) Training
Recommended Sequence of ICS Training
All Emergency Management Practitioners
• IS 0100: Introduction to the Incident Command System, ICS 100
• IS 0700: National Incident Management System (NIMS), An Introduction

Emergency Management Supervisors add
• IS 0200: Incident Command System for Single Resources and Initial Action
Incidents
• IS 0800: National Response Framework, An Introduction

Advanced NIMS Training for ICS Leaders/ Supervisors
•
•
•
•

G 0191: ICS/EOC Interface
E/L/G 0300: Intermediate ICS for Expanding Incidents
E/L/G 0400: Advanced ICS for Command and General Staff
NIMS ICS All Hazards Position Specific Courses (E/L/G 0949-0991)

Slide 47

Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Training
Recommended Sequence of EOC Training
All Emergency Management Practitioners
• IS 0100: Introduction to the Incident Command System, ICS 100
• IS 0700: National Incident Management System (NIMS), An Introduction

Emergency Management Supervisors add
• IS 0775 or IS 2200 (in development) Basic EOC Management and
Operations
• IS 0800: National Response Framework, An Introduction

Advanced NIMS Training for EOC Leaders/ Supervisors
• G 0191 ICS/EOC Interface Workshop
• E/L/G 0775 or E/L/G 2300 (in development) Intermediate EOC
Management and Operations

Slide 48

LEARN MORE ABOUT NIMS
• FEMA National Incident Management System
• The Resource Typing Library Tool (RTLT)
• The Intelligence and Investigations Guide
• NIMS Reusable Learning Objects
• NIMS/ ICS Resources and Section 508 Compliant NIMS Forms
• FEMA NIMS Training
Questions? Send us e-mail: FEMA-NIMS@fema.dhs.gov
Stay informed! Sign up for NIMS Alerts

Slide 49

Extended Alt Text slides for 508 Compliance

Slide 50

Alternative Text Slide 18
The graphic depicts the NIMS Resource Management process. The
Resource Management Process defines the six resource
management tasks performed in an incident. At the beginning of
the cycle incident objectives, strategies and tactics are used to
identify resource requirements. In the second step these resource
requirements are ordered and acquired. In the third step the
resources are mobilized. In the fourth step these resources are
tracked and reported on during utilization. In the fifth step the
resources are demobilized when no longer required for the
incident. Finally, the cost of using the resource is reimbursed to
the resource’s owner, and any depleted items are restocked for
future requirements.
Return to Previous slide

Slide 51

Alternative Text Slide 29
The graphic depicts the Planning “P” chart. The Planning “P” process
begins with the initial response and the information gathering and
sharing. The steps in these processes are incident/threat, notification,
initial response and assessment, agency administrator briefing (if
appropriate), incident briefing ICS 201, initial UC meeting (if Unified
Command), IC/UC sets initial incident objectives, and initial strategy
meeting and information sharing. After this initial step the process moved
to being a cycle of tactics meeting, preparing for planning meeting,
planning meeting, IAP preparation and approval, operational period
briefing, begin operational period, execute plan and assess progress,
IC/UC validate or adjust objectives, strategy meeting if objectives
adjusted, and then back to tactics meeting to begin the cycle over again.
Information gathering and sharing is happening continuously throughout
this process.
Return to Previous Slide

Slide 52

