
 Types of institutions, bodies and agencies | European Union
 Skip to main content
 EnglishSelect your language
Close
EU official languages
bgбългарски
esespañol
csčeština
dadansk
deDeutsch
eteesti
elελληνικά
enEnglish
frfrançais
gaGaeilge
hrhrvatski
ititaliano
lvlatviešu
ltlietuvių
humagyar
mtMalti
nlNederlands
plpolski
ptportuguês
roromână
skslovenčina
slslovenščina
fisuomi
svsvenska
Other languages
ruрусский
ukyкраїнська
Search
Search
 European Union
MenuCloseMenu
BackPrevious itemsNext itemsHome
Principles, countries, historyPrinciples and values
Facts and figures on the European Union 
EU countries
EU enlargement
Achievements
History of the EU
Europe Day
Symbols
Languages
See all
Institutions, law, budgetInstitutions and bodies
Leadership 
Law
Budget
The Euro
See all
Priorities and actionsEU priorities
Actions by topic
EU support for Ukraine
See all
Live, work, studyLiving in the EU
Travelling in the EU
Participate, interact, vote
Immigration to the EU
Working in the EU
Doing business in the EU
Import and export
Funding, grants, subsidies
Public contracts
Studying and training in the EU
Jobs and traineeships in EU institutions
See all
News and eventsFeatured news
Latest news from EU institutions and bodies
Events
Visual stories
See all
Contact the EUWrite to us
Call us
Meet us
Contact details: institutions, bodies and agencies
Visit a European Union institution
Europe and worldwide offices
Make a complaint
Press contacts
Social media channels
See all
Home
…
Institutions, law, budget
Institutions and bodies
Types of institutions and bodies
Types of institutions and bodies
 Page contents
Set-up and location
Institutions
Bodies
Interinstitutional services
Decentralised agencies
Common foreign and security policy
Executive agencies
Euratom agencies and bodies
 Set-up and location
The European Union’s institutional set-up is unique and its decision-making system is constantly evolving. The 7 European institutions, 9 EU bodies and over 30 decentralised agencies are spread across the EU. They work together to address the common interests of the EU and European people. 
In terms of administration, there are over 20 EU agencies and organisations which carry out specific legal functions and 4 interinstitutional services which support the institutions.
All of these establishments have specific roles – from developing EU laws and policy-making to implementing policies and working on specialist areas, such as health, medicine, transport and the environment.
There are 4 main decision-making institutions which lead the EU’s administration. These institutions collectively provide the EU with policy direction and play different roles in the law-making process: 
the European Parliament (Brussels/Strasbourg/Luxembourg)
the European Council (Brussels)
the Council of the European Union (Brussels/Luxembourg)
the European Commission (Brussels/Luxembourg/Representations across the EU) 
Their work is complemented by other institutions and bodies, which include:
the Court of Justice of the European Union (Luxembourg)
the European Central Bank (Frankfurt)
the European Court of Auditors (Luxembourg)
The EU institutions and bodies cooperate extensively with the network of EU agencies and organisations across the European Union. The primary function of these bodies and agencies is to translate policies into realities on the ground.
Around 60,000 EU civil servants and other staff serve the 450 million Europeans (and countless others around the world). This is actually a relatively small number - the French Finance Ministry has around 140,000 staff for a population of only 67 million.
Key facts and figures
 Institutions
The powers, responsibilities and procedures of the EU’s institutions are laid down in the founding treaties of the EU: the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (1957) and the Treaty on European Union (1992). More recently, the Lisbon Treaty (2007) introduced certain amendments and additions to their competencies.  
The 4 main EU institutions, with their distinct functions, work together closely to set the EU’s agenda and initiate and coordinate EU law-making. 
In general, the European Council does not make laws. However, it can agree on changes in the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Its main role is to determine the EU’s political direction. In most cases, the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission produce the policies and laws that apply throughout the EU. The process they follow is called the Ordinary Legislative Procedure.
In principle, the Commission proposes new laws, and the Parliament and Council of the European Union adopt them. The member countries then implement them, and the Commission ensures that the laws are properly applied.
European Parliament The European Parliament represents the citizens of EU countries and is directly elected by them. It takes decisions on European laws jointly with the Council of the European Union. It also approves the EU budget. It runs a network of liaison offices in EU capitals, London, Edinburgh and Washington D.C.
European Council The heads of state or government of the EU countries meet, as the European Council, to define the general political direction and priorities of the European Union. The European Council is chaired by a president who is elected for a 2.5-year term, renewable once. It does not adopt laws except for possible EU Treaty amendments.
Council of the European Union Represents the governments of EU countries. The Council of the EU is where national ministers from each government meet to adopt laws and coordinate policies. Ministers meet in different configurations depending on the topic to be discussed. The Council of the EU takes decisions on European laws jointly with the European Parliament.
European Commission The European Commission represents the common interests of the EU and is the EU’s main executive body. It uses its ‘right of initiative’ to put forward proposals for new laws, which are scrutinised and adopted by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union. It also manages EU policies (except for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, which is conducted by the High Representative for CFSP, Vice-President of the European Commission), and the EU’s budget and ensures that countries apply EU law correctly. Representation offices act as the Commission’s voice across the EU. They monitor and analyse public opinion in their host country, provide information about EU policies and the way the EU works, and facilitate the Commission’s cooperation with the host member country.
The work of these 4 main EU institutions, which covers the legislative and executive tasks of the EU, is complemented by the work of another 3 EU institutions: the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Central Bank and the European Court of Auditors. These 3 institutions are responsible for managing the judicial, financial and external audit aspects of the European Union.
Court of Justice of the European Union The Court ensures that EU law is followed, and that the Treaties are correctly interpreted and applied: it reviews the legality of the acts of the EU institutions, ensures that EU countries comply with their obligations under the Treaties, and interprets EU law at the request of national courts.
European Central Bank The European Central Bank and the European System of Central Banks are responsible for keeping prices stable in the euro area. They are also responsible for the monetary and exchange rate policy in the Eurozone and support EU economic policies. 
European Court of Auditors The European Court of Auditors contributes to improving EU financial management, and promoting accountability and transparency, and acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens. It checks that EU funds are correctly accounted for, that they are raised and spent in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations, and that they deliver value for money.
 How key EU officials are elected and appointed
Interinstitutional decision-making processes
EU priorities 2024-2029
Visual story on the Lisbon Treaty
 Bodies
In addition to the institutions, there are a number of bodies which play specialised roles in helping the EU to fulfil its tasks. Some bodies have the task of advising the institutions (the European Economic and Social Committee, the European Committee of the Regions); others ensure that the institutions comply with EU rules and procedures (the European Ombudsman, the European Data Protection Supervisor). The European External Action Service is an external policy body that supports the EU on foreign affairs matters.
European External Action Service The European External Action Service (EEAS) is the European Union’s diplomatic service. It helps the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy/Vice-President of the European Commission implement the EU’s common foreign and security policy, and ensures the consistency and coordination of the EU’s external action. It has a network of EU Delegations throughout the world.
European Economic and Social Committee The European Economic and Social Committee (EESC) represents a variety of civil society stakeholders from across Europe, including employers, workers and representatives from other social, occupational, economic and cultural organisations. The European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission consult the EESC when they take decisions on policy matters within its remit.
European Committee of the Regions The Committee of the Regions (CoR) represents regional and local authorities. The European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the European Commission consult the CoR on matters of relevance to local and regional authorities.
European Investment Bank The European Investment Bank (EIB) is the lending arm of the European Union. It focuses its activities on climate and the environment, development, innovation and skills, small and medium-sized businesses, infrastructure and cohesion.
European Ombudsman The Ombudsman is an independent and impartial body that holds the EU’s institutions and agencies to account and promotes good administration. The Ombudsman helps people, businesses and organisations who face problems with the EU by investigating complaints about maladministration, as well as by proactively looking into broader systemic issues.
European Data Protection Supervisor The European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) ensures that EU institutions and bodies respect people’s right to privacy when processing their personal data.
European Data Protection Board The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is an independent body that ensures the consistent application of data protection rules throughout the EU, and promotes cooperation between national data protection authorities in the EU.
European Public Prosecutor’s Office The European Public Prosecutor’s Office (EPPO) is an independent public prosecution office of the European Union. It is responsible for investigating, prosecuting and bringing to judgment crimes against the financial interests of the EU. 
European Cybersecurity Competence Centre The European Cybersecurity Competence Centre (ECCC), together with the Network of National Coordination Centres, supports innovation and industrial policy in cybersecurity. It also develops and implements with EU countries technological developments in areas of public interest and in businesses. The ECCC’s work reinforces the EU’s strategic autonomy and contributes to increasing the global competitiveness of the EU’s cybersecurity industry.
 Interinstitutional services
The EU institutions created 4 interinstitutional services to serve and support the work of the EU institutions, as well as its agencies and bodies. They each have specific remits, which cover the essential requirements of the EU institutions, such as recruitment, staff learning and development, IT and publishing. The Publications Office was established in 1969, whereas the other offices were set up more recently – the European Personnel Selection Office in 2003, the European School of Administration in 2005 and the Computer Emergency Response Team in 2012.
Computer Emergency Response Team The Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-EU) manages threats to EU institutions' computer systems – supporting IT security teams in each EU institution and liaising with public-sector CERT counterparts in EU countries.
European School of Administration The European School of Administration (EuSA) provides training in specific areas for EU staff and works in close cooperation with the training departments of all the institutions to avoid any duplication of effort.
European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) The European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) is the EU’s selection office. It organises competitions to recruit candidates to work for EU institutions and agencies.
Publications Office The Publications Office of the European Union (OP) is the official provider of publishing services to all EU institutions, bodies and agencies. As such, it is the central point of access to EU law, publications, open data, research results, procurement notices and other official information.
 Decentralised agencies
There are currently over 30 decentralised agencies. They have their own legal personalities, are set up for an indefinite period and are distinct from the EU institutions. 
Decentralised agencies contribute to the implementation of EU policies. They also support cooperation between the EU and national governments by pooling technical and specialist expertise and knowledge from both the EU institutions and national authorities.
These organisations are spread across Europe and work on issues affecting the everyday lives of nearly 450 million people living in the EU. Examples include food, medicine, justice, transport safety, drug addiction and the environment.
For example:
The European Medicines Agency is a decentralised agency, located in Amsterdam. Established in 1995, it works on ensuring the efficacy and safety of human and veterinary medicines across Europe. It also promotes research and innovation in the development of medicines. It has contributed significantly to the development of children’s medicines, remedies for rare diseases, advanced therapies, and herbal and veterinary medicines. It also has a role to play in tackling such public health challenges as AIDS, cancer, Alzheimer’s, and diabetes. 
See all decentralised agencies
See the European Medicines Agency’s work on viral diseases
Joint statement of the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and the European Commission on decentralised agencies
1 February 2022
EnglishDownload (1.09 MB - PDF)
 Common foreign and security policy
The EU has set up 3 agencies to carry out very clearly defined technical, scientific and management tasks. The trio’s overarching mission is to help the EU and its member countries to implement the common foreign and security policy, including the common security and defence policy, and other aspects of EU external action. The EU has also established an autonomous EU body to help train civilian and military personnel in these policy areas to ensure Europe’s ever-changing security threats can be dealt with effectively.
European Defence Agency
The Defence Agency supports the development of defence capabilities and military cooperation between EU countries. It stimulates defence research and technology, strengthens the European defence industry and acts as a military interface on EU policies.
European Union Institute for Security Studies
The Institute analyses foreign, security and defence policy issues. It provides analysis, organises discussion forums to help formulate EU policy, and contributes to debates on security strategy in and outside Europe.
European Union Satellite Centre
The Satellite Centre provides geospatial intelligence products and services, primarily by analysing data from Earth observation satellites. It provides decision makers with early warnings of potential crises to enable diplomatic, economic and humanitarian measures to be taken in good time.
European Security and Defence College
The College provides training and education to civilian and military personnel on the common security and defence policy in the wider context of the common foreign and security policy. It ensures civilian, diplomatic, police and military personnel are fully prepared to adapt to and address existing and emerging security challenges effectively.
 Executive agencies
The European Commission has set up 6 executive agencies for a limited period of time to manage specific tasks associated with EU programmes. These executive agencies, which are legal entities, work on Commission initiatives ranging from health and education to innovation and research.
For example:
The European Commission established the European Innovation Council and SME Executive Agency (EISMEA) to develop and implement the European Innovation Council that identifies and supports breakthrough technologies and innovations. The Agency is also responsible for managing EU programmes in SME support, innovation ecosystems, single market, consumer policy and interregional innovation investments. It makes sure that work funded by these programmes delivers results and provides the Commission with valuable input for its policy tasks.
See all executive agencies
 Euratom agencies and bodies
There are 2 Euratom agencies and bodies which were set up to support the aims of the European Atomic Energy Community Treaty (EURATOM, 1957). The aims of the Treaty are: to coordinate national nuclear research programmes for peaceful purposes; to provide knowledge, infrastructure and funding for nuclear energy; and to ensure sufficient and secure supplies of nuclear energy.
Euratom Supply Agency
The agency ensures a regular and equitable supply of nuclear fuels to EU users. It enhances the security of supply to users in the European Union.
Fusion for Energy Joint Undertaking
The joint undertaking manages the EU’s contribution to the ITER (originally, the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor) project, designed to demonstrate the scientific and technological feasibility of fusion power, and cooperates with Japan on fusion research and development projects.
 Related links
Facts and figures on the European Union 
How EU laws are made
Europe in 12 lessons
 This page was last updated on 21 April 2026
This site is managed by:
Directorate-General for Communication
Contact the EU
Call us 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11
Use other telephone options
Write to us via our contact form
Meet us at one of the EU centres
Social media
Search for EU social media channels
Legal
Languages on our websites
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Cookies
Accessibility
EU institutions and bodies
Search all EU institutions and bodies
