https://docs.cilium.io/en/stable/reference-guides/bpf/



## {#bpf-and-xdp-reference-guide} 
 {#bpf-guide} 
BPF and XDP Reference Guide

Note

This documentation section is targeted at developers and users who
want to understand BPF and XDP in great technical depth. While
reading this reference guide may help broaden your understanding of
Cilium, it is not a requirement to use Cilium. Please refer to the
Getting Started guide and eBPF Datapath for a higher
level introduction.

BPF is a highly flexible and efficient virtual machine-like construct in the
Linux kernel allowing to execute bytecode at various hook points in a safe
manner. It is used in a number of Linux kernel subsystems, most prominently
networking, tracing and security (e.g. sandboxing).

Although BPF exists since 1992, this document covers the extended Berkeley
Packet Filter (eBPF) version which has first appeared in Kernel 3.18 and
renders the original version which is being referred to as “classic” BPF
(cBPF) these days mostly obsolete. cBPF is known to many as being the packet
filter language used by tcpdump. Nowadays, the Linux kernel runs eBPF only and
loaded cBPF bytecode is transparently translated into an eBPF representation
in the kernel before program execution. This documentation will generally refer
to the term BPF unless explicit differences between eBPF and cBPF are being
pointed out.

Even though the name Berkeley Packet Filter hints at a packet filtering specific
purpose, the instruction set is generic and flexible enough these days that
there are many use cases for BPF apart from networking. See Further Reading
for a list of projects which use BPF.

Cilium uses BPF heavily in its data path, see eBPF Datapath for further
information. The goal of this chapter is to provide a BPF reference guide in
order to gain understanding of BPF, its networking specific use including loading
BPF programs with tc (traffic control) and XDP (eXpress Data Path), and to aid
with developing Cilium’s BPF templates.

BPF Architecture

Instruction Set

Helper Functions

Maps

Object Pinning

Tail Calls

BPF to BPF Calls

JIT

Hardening

Offloads

BPF sysctls

Development Tools

Development Environment

LLVM

iproute2

Debugging and Testing

bpftool

Kernel Testing

JIT Debugging

Introspection

Tracing pipe

Miscellaneous

Program Types

XDP

tc (traffic control)

Further Reading

Kernel Developer FAQ

Projects using BPF

XDP Newbies

BPF Newsletter

Podcasts

Blog posts

Books

Talks

Further Documents

          <footer