An official website of the United States government

Here's how you know

Here's how you know

Official websites use .gov
A
.gov website belongs to an official government
organization in the United States.

Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock (
) or https:// means you've safely connected to
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
secure websites.

- Skip to global NPS navigation

- Skip to the main content

- Skip to the footer section

National Park Service

Search

Search

This Site

All NPS

Open
Menu

Close
Menu

Explore This Park

Explore the National Park Service

Exiting nps.gov

Cancel

Contact Us

Article

Civics 101: Principles of American Government

National Archives/ Library of Congress

Welcome to the Civics 101 Trivia Game!

Who has the most knowledge of American Civics? Test your knowledge or form teams with your friends and keep score. This section has questions about the principles of American government. Have fun and good luck!

What is the form of government of the United States?

(Bonus points: can you name all three correct answers?)

Republic

Constitution-based federal republic

Representative democracy

National Archives

What is the supreme law of the land?(Bonus: when was it written?)

The U.S. Constitution, written in 1787.

The Constitution and other founding documents are stored in the National Archives in Washington, D.C.

National Archives

Name one thing that the U.S. Constitution does.(Bonus points: name four!)

Defines the powers of government

Defines the parts of government

Protects the rights of the people

Forms the government

National Archives

The U.S. Constitution starts with the words “We the People.”What does “We the People” mean in terms of governance?

Self-government

Popular sovereignty

Consent of the governed

People should govern themselves

(Example of) social contract

Library of Congress/ Carol Highsmith

How are changes made to the U.S. Constitution?

Amendments (the amendment process). Learn more at the Constitution Annoted website.

Library of Congress/ Michael R. Jenkins

How many amendments are there to the U.S. Constitution?

Twenty-seven (27)

Library of Congress/ Carol Highsmith

The words "Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness" are found in which founding document?

The Declaration of Independence

The signed document is stored at the National Archives.

Preparing the engraved plate for the new small size paper currency, Dept. of the Treasury Library of Congress

What is the economic system of the United States?

Capitalism

Free market economy

Many documents influenced the U.S. Constitution. Can you name one based on a Native American government?(Bonus: can you name 8 historical documents that influenced the Constitution?)

Constitution of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy (Great Law of Peace)

The Declaration of Independence

The Articles of Confederation

The Federalist Papers

The Anti-Federalist Papers

Virginia Declaration of Rights

The Fundamental Orders of Connecticut

The Mayflower Compact

Did You Know?

The U.S. Constitution was partly based on and largely influenced by the Constitution of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy. This influence was formally recognized by Congress in October of 1988, when the U.S. Senate passed a Concurrent Resolution to “acknowledge the contribution of the Iroquois Confederacy of Nations to the development of the United States Constitution and to reaffirm the continuing government- to- government relationship between Indian tribes and the United States established in the Constitution.” The Tree of Peace  tells part of this story and is a living symbol of the Great Law of Peace.

Why are there three branches of government?

So that one part does not become too powerful

Checks and balances

Separation of powers

Civics 101 Trivia Game

Play the Other Sections!

Source: Questions and answers are derived directly from or inspired by the 2020 Version of the Civics Test, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services

You Might Also Like

Loading results...

Last updated: February 22, 2024

-->

-

This Site

-

All NPS

Experience Your America.

Download the NPS app to navigate the parks on the go.

-

Accessibility

-

Privacy Policy

-

FOIA

-

Notices

-

Contact The National Park Service

-

NPS FAQ

-

No Fear Act

-

Disclaimer

-

Vulnerability Disclosure Policy

-

USA.gov

-

Office of Civil Rights

Looking for U.S. government information and services?

Visit USA.gov