CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

THE USCIS 2025 CIVICS TEST STUDY GUIDE

One Nation,
One People

1

ARE YOU THINKING ABOUT APPLYING FOR NATURALIZATION?
SCAN THIS QR CODE TO ACCESS INFORMATION TO HELP YOU PREPARE FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP.

4

USCIS CITIZENSHIP RESOURCE CENTER
THIS QR CODE LINKS YOU TO USCIS RESOURCES AND PUBLICATIONS TO REVIEW
WHILE YOU ARE PREPARING FOR YOUR NATURALIZATION TEST. YOU CAN ALSO GO
TO USCIS.GOV/CITIZENSHIP
ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

THE USCIS 2025 CIVICS TEST STUDY GUIDE

One Nation,
One People

One Nation, One People: The USCIS 2025 Civics Test Study Guide (M-1175)

5

6

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

TABLE
OFU.S.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER
1: THE
CONSTITUTION

Chapter 1: The U.S. Constitution................................................................................8
Chapter 2: The Legislative Branch.............................................................................18
Chapter 3: The Executive Branch...............................................................................24
Chapter 4: The Judicial Branch..................................................................................29
Chapter 5: Rights and Responsibilities.......................................................................33
Chapter 6: U.S. Geography........................................................................................38
Chapter 7: Early American History.............................................................................43
Chapter 8: The American Revolutionary War and the Declaration of Independence.........47
Chapter 9: A New Government and an Expanding Nation..............................................52
Chapter 10: The Civil War.........................................................................................58
Chapter 11: American History: 1900 – 2001.................................................................62
Chapter 12: American Symbols and Holidays..............................................................69
Index: 128 Civics Test Questions and Answers.............................................................77

7

CHAPTER 1

THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The U.S. Constitution.
❏ When the Constitution was written.
❏ What the Constitution says.
❏ Why the Constitution is the most important document in
the United States government.
The U.S. Constitution was written in 1787. It is the oldest written
constitution in the world. The Constitution sets up the government
and enshrines the basic rights of the American People.
The Constitution was written during the period when the country was
created. Another word for created is “founded.” The period when the
country was created is called the Founding Era. In 1787, famous leaders
from around the country like George Washington, Benjamin Franklin,
James Madison, and Alexander Hamilton came to Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, for a Constitutional Convention. The leaders who met at
the Constitutional Convention are sometimes called the Founders. The
Founders wrote the Constitution at the Constitutional Convention.
When the Founders wrote the Constitution in 1787, it had a
Preamble and seven sections. There have been changes made to
the Constitution since it was written. A change to the Constitution
is called an amendment. There are 27 amendments to the
Constitution. The 27 amendments are listed after the seven sections
of the original Constitution.

8

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

“Scene at the Signing of the Constitution,” by Howard Chandler Christy. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

WE THE PEOPLE
The beginning of the Constitution is called the Preamble. The Preamble
to the Constitution explains why the Founders wrote the Constitution.
The Preamble also says that under the Constitution, the people of the
United States will have self-government. This means that the people
of the United States are not governed by a king or a queen. Instead,
the people of the United States govern themselves. The people of the
United States govern themselves by electing representatives who serve
in the local, state, and U.S. governments.
The idea of self-government is in the first three words of the
Constitution. These words are, “We the people”.

The Constitution of the United States.
Courtesy of the National Archives.

9

THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
The Three Branches of Government
The first three sections of the Constitution set up the U.S. government.
These sections of the Constitution describe the three branches or parts of the U.S. government. The U.S.
government is also called the federal government.
The three branches of government are called the Legislative Branch, the Executive Branch, and the
Judicial Branch.

U.S. Government

Legislative Branch
(Congress)

Executive Branch
(President)

Judicial Branch
(Supreme Court)

The Legislative Branch is also called Congress. There are two parts to the U.S. Congress. They are called
the House of Representatives and the Senate.

Two Parts of Congress
U.S.Congress

U.S.House of
Respresentatives

10

U.S. Senate

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
The President of the United States is in charge of the Executive Branch.
Other parts of the Executive Branch include:
● The Vice President of the United States
● The President’s Cabinet
○ In government, a “cabinet” is another word for a “group of advisors.”
The President’s Cabinet advises the President.
● The Executive Departments and agencies in the U.S. government
The parts of the Judicial Branch are the Supreme Court and other federal courts.
The Supreme Court is the highest court in the U.S.

The U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C.

11

Separation of Powers
During the Constitutional Convention, the Founders were afraid that if one person or group has too much
power, then they could take over the country. They decided to separate the powers of government so that
no one person or group could become too powerful. The Constitution gives each branch of government
different powers. This is called “separation of powers.” Separation of powers stops one branch from
becoming too powerful.
The powers of each branch of government are:
● The Legislative Branch (Congress) makes federal laws.
● The Executive Branch enforces federal laws.
● The Judicial Branch reviews federal laws.

3 Branches of Government
Constitution
(provided a separation of powers)

Legislative Branch
(makes federal laws)

Executive Branch
(enforces federal laws)

Congress

Senate

House of
Representatives

12

President

Vice
President

Judicial Branch
(reviews federal laws)

Supreme
Court
Other
Federal
Courts

Cabinet

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
Powers of the Federal Government
The Constitution also lists the powers that the federal government has, such as the power to protect the
people of the United States.
For example, under the Constitution, the federal government has the power to create an army to
defend the nation, and to declare war if the U.S. has been attacked or is under threat.
The federal government also has the power to make treaties.
A treaty is an agreement between two or more countries. Sometimes
the federal government signs treaties with other countries to end
wars or conflicts. Other times, the federal government signs treaties
with countries to work together on issues like trade.
Another power that the federal government has under the
Constitution is to print money. Only the U.S. government has the
power to print the dollar bills and coins that people use for money
in the United States.

Members of the U.S. military.

U.S. coins and currency.

Signing of mutual cooperation treaty with Japan in the East Room of the White House,
January 1960. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

13

STATE GOVERNMENTS
The fourth section of the Constitution explains how state governments
are set up. This section also explains how new states can join the
United States.
The Constitution says that each state will have a government that
has a legislative branch, an executive branch, and a judicial branch.
The person in charge of the executive branch for a state government
is a called a governor. Each of the 50 states has a governor.
To find out who is the governor of your state now, please visit:
usa.gov/state-governor.

Washington, D.C., does not have
a governor because it is not a
U.S. state. Washington, D.C.,
residents should answer that
D.C. does not have a governor.

Under the Constitution, powers not delegated to the United States by
the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved for the
states respectively, or to the people.
For example, state governments have the power to provide the
people of their state with protection and safety. One way that state
governments do this is by providing the people in their state with police
departments and fire departments.
State governments also have the power to provide the people of
their state with schooling and education. Each state in the U.S. has
its own educational system for students in grade school, colleges and
universities, and adult education programs.

Students in a U.S. classroom.

14

Fighting fires is among a state’s powers.

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
CHANGING THE CONSTITUTION
The fifth section of the Constitution explains how
the Constitution can be changed. A change to
the Constitution is called an amendment. The
Founders wanted the people of the United States to
be able to make changes to the Constitution. They
believed that in order to have self-government, the
people of the United States should be able to make
changes to the Constitution and the government.
For an amendment to be added to the Constitution
it must be approved by three-fourths of the states
in the United States. Today there are 50 states in
the U.S. That means that 38 out of the 50 states
must approve an amendment for it to be added
to the Constitution. There are 27 amendments to
the Constitution.

SUPREME LAW OF THE LAND
The sixth section of the Constitution says the
Constitution is the supreme law of the land in the
United States. This means that everyone living in
the United States must follow the Constitution. In
the United States, we support the “rule of law.” This
means that we believe that no one is above the law,
and everyone must follow the law. This also means
that the U.S. government, state governments, and
local governments must follow the Constitution and
the rule of law.

Statue of Lady Justice

15

APPROVING THE CONSTITUTION
The seventh section of the
Constitution says that the people
of the United States had to
approve the Constitution for it
to become the law of the land.
When the Founders wrote the
Constitution, there were 13 states
in the U.S. The Constitution says
that nine of the 13 original states
must approve the Constitution.
In 1788, New Hampshire became
the ninth state to approve the
Constitution, and all 13 original
states approved the Constitution
by 1790.

This map identifies the
13 original states and
when they approved
the Constitution.

Massachusetts
New York

(July 26, 1788)

New Hampshire

(June 21, 1788)

Massachusetts

(February 6, 1788)

Rhode Island

Pennsylvania

(May 29, 1790)

Connecticut

(December 12, 1787)

(January 9, 1788)

New Jersey(December 18, 1787)
Delaware(December 7, 1787)
Virginia

Maryland (April 28, 1788)

North Carolina

Atlantic Ocean

(June 25, 1788)

(November 21, 1789)

South
Carolina

Georgia

(May 23, 1788)

(January 2, 1788)

AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION
When the Constitution was written in 1787, it did not list any of
the rights of individuals. Many of the Founders believed that the
Constitution should include a list of the rights of people living in the
United States.
The Founders decided to add 10 amendments to the Constitution.
The first 10 amendments to the Constitution are called the Bill of
Rights. The Bill of Rights lists some of the basic rights of people living
in the United States.
There are 27 amendments to the Constitution. Some of
the amendments that were added to the Constitution after the
Bill of Rights describe who can be a U.S. citizen, and who can vote
in elections in the United States.
The Bill of Rights to the U.S. Constitution.

16

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

17

CHAPTER 2

THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH (CONGRESS)
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Legislative Branch of the U.S. government.
❏ The House of Representatives.

❏ The Senate.
❏ The process for making federal laws.

The Legislative Branch is one branch or part of the government.
Another name for the Legislative Branch is the U.S. Congress.
The Constitution says that Congress makes federal laws. When the
Founders were writing the Constitution, they believed that the power
to make laws is the most important power in government. This is why
the first section of the Constitution describes Congress and the power
to make federal laws.
During the Constitutional Convention, the Founders agreed that the
people who make laws should represent the states or parts of states
where they lived.
When the Constitutional Convention started, the Founders did not agree
on how many representatives each state should have in Congress. Some
people thought that the number of representatives from each state
should be based on the number of people living in the state. Others
thought that each state should have the same number of representatives, no matter how many people lived in the state. They came to an
agreement to have two parts to the U.S. Congress. The two parts to the
U.S. Congress are the House of Representatives and the Senate.
States that have more people have more representatives in the
House of Representatives, and every state in the United States
has two U.S. Senators.

18

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 2: THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH (CONGRESS)

U.S. Government

Legislative Branch
(Congress)

Executive Branch
(President)

Judicial Branch
(Supreme Court)

U.S. Congress
U.S. House of
Representatives

U.S. Senate

House of Representatives
Wyoming

1 voting member

California

52 voting members

Example:
California:
● is the state with the most people.
● has 52 voting members in the House of
Representatives.
Wyoming:

THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Voting Members of the House of Representatives
There are 435 voting members in the House of
Representatives.
Each state is divided into congressional districts. The
435 voting members of the House of Representatives
come from congressional districts from each of
the 50 states. Each congressional district elects a
person to serve as a representative in the House of
Representatives.
Some states have more representatives in the House
of Representatives than others.
This is because states that have more people
have more representatives in the House of
Representatives.

● is the state with the least people.
● has one voting member in the House of
Representatives.

19

Electing Members of the House of Representatives
Members of the House of Representatives are elected every
two years.
To get elected to the House of Representatives, a person must be at
least 25 years of age and live in the state where the congressional
district is located.
One right that is only for U.S. citizens is to run for federal
office. This means that a person must be a U.S. citizen to get elected to
the House of Representatives.
To find the name of your Representative for your congressional
district please visit: house.gov.
The Speaker of the House
The leader of the House of Representatives is called the Speaker
of the House.
To find the name of the current Speaker of the House, please visit:
speaker.gov.

THE SENATE
U.S. Senators
There are 100 U.S. Senators in the Senate.
Senators represent all the people of a state.

Each state has two U.S. Senators.
Example:
● The states of California and Wyoming
both have two U.S. Senators.
Wyoming

California

20

The United States Capitol in Washington,
D.C., is the meeting place of the nation’s
legislature, the U.S. Congress.

Electing U.S. Senators
U.S. Senators are elected for six years.
To get elected to the Senate, a person must be at
least 30 years of age and they must live in the state
that they represent.
One right that is only for U.S. citizens is to run
for federal office. This means that a person must
be a U.S. citizen to get elected to the Senate.
To find the name of your U.S. Senators,
please visit: senate.gov.

Washington, D.C., does not have any senators
because it is not a U.S. state. Washington, D.C.,
residents should answer that D.C. does not have
a senator.

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 2: THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH (CONGRESS)

U.S. Congress
Two Parts
U.S. House of
Representatives

U.S. Senate

435 U.S.
Representatives in the
House of Representatives

100 U.S.
Senators in the
U.S. Senate

The number of representatives
for a state depends on the number
of people that live there

Each state has
two senators

Represent a
district

Represent all of the
people of a state

2-year terms for
U.S. Representatives

6-year terms
for U.S. Senators

21

MAKING FEDERAL LAWS
The Constitution says that Congress makes
federal laws. A “law” is another word for a “rule”
that people must follow. A “federal law” is another
word for a “rule” that everyone in the
United States must follow.
When members of Congress want to make a new
law, they write a “bill.” A bill is a proposal for a new
law. For Congress to pass a bill, a majority of both
the House of Representatives and the Senate must
vote for it. This means that more than half of the
voting members in the House of Representatives and
U.S. Senators must vote in support of the bill.
For example, there are 435 voting members in
the House of Representatives. For a bill to pass
the House of Representatives, 218 members (or the
majority of those voting and present) must vote in
favor of the bill.
There are 100 U.S. Senators in the Senate.
For most bills to pass the Senate, 51 U.S. Senators
(or the majority of those voting and present) must
vote in favor of it.
If both parts of Congress pass the bill, then the bill
is sent to the President of the United States.
If the President agrees with the bill, then the President
signs the bill into law. This means that everyone in the
country must follow the law that the President signed.
If the President does not agree with the bill, then
the President vetoes the bill. The word “veto”
means that the President did not sign the bill. Then
the bill does not become a law unless Congress votes
to override the veto.

The Oval Office of the White House. Photo by Cecil Stoughton.
Courtesy of the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum.

22

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

23

CHAPTER 3

THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Executive Branch.
❏ The President of the United States.
❏ The agencies in the federal government.
The Executive Branch is one branch or part of the U.S. government.
The President of the United States is in charge of the Executive
Branch.
The other parts of the Executive Branch are the President’s Cabinet, the
Vice President of the United States, and the Executive Departments and
agencies in the federal government.
During the Constitutional Convention, the Founders were afraid
that if the President had too much power, then the President would be
above the law and could become a king or queen. The Founders believed
that in the United States no one is above the law. This is called the
“rule of law”. The Founders believed that the President should have the
power to protect and serve the people of the United States. They also
believed that the President should follow the rule of law.
THE PRESIDENT’S CABINET
The Executive Branch includes the Executive Departments and agencies
that are part of the federal government. The Executive Departments
and agencies help the President to enforce laws, protect the country,
work with other countries, and provide services to the people of the
United States.
The people who lead the Executive Departments are mostly called
Secretaries. For example, the person who leads the Department of
Homeland Security is called the Secretary of Homeland Security.
24

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 3: THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH

U.S. Government

Legislative Branch
(Congress)

Executive Branch
(President)

Judicial Branch
(Supreme Court)

The leaders of the Executive Departments are also called Cabinet-level
positions because the people who lead each agency are part of the
President’s Cabinet. A “cabinet” is another word for a “group of
advisors.” The President’s Cabinet advises the President.
The President can also choose to have other people from the federal
government serve on the Cabinet.
Each Executive Department has many smaller agencies. For example,
the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is part of the Department of
Justice. Another example is U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
(USCIS). USCIS is part of the Department of Homeland Security.

The leader of the Department of Justice is not called a “Secretary.” The leader of
the Department of Justice is called the Attorney General.

The Cabinet-level positions
include:

● Attorney General
● Secretary of Agriculture
● Secretary of Commerce
● Secretary of Education
● Secretary of Energy
● Secretary of Health and
Human Services
● Secretary of Homeland Security
● Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development
● Secretary of the Interior
● Secretary of Labor
● Secretary of State
● Secretary of Transportation
● Secretary of the Treasury
● Secretary of Veterans Affairs
● Secretary of War (Defense)
● Vice-President
● Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency
● Administrator of the Small
Business Administration
● Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency
● Director of the Office of
Management and Budget
● Director of National Intelligence
● United States Trade Representative

President Donald J. Trump’s Cabinet, 2025.

25

THE COMMANDER IN CHIEF
The President of the United States is the
Commander in Chief of the military. This means
that the President is in charge of everyone serving
in U.S. military. Another term for the U.S. military
is the U.S. Armed Forces.

There are six branches of the U.S. Armed Forces:

In the United States, serving in the U.S. Armed
Forces is voluntary. Today there are over 2 million
people serving in the U.S. Armed Forces. For more
information about the U.S. Armed Forces, please visit:
U.S. Department of Defense at www.defense.gov.

VOTING FOR PRESIDENT
U.S. citizens vote for President in November,
and the President is elected for four years. A
person can only be elected to be President two
times. This means a person can get elected for four
years, and then get reelected for four more years.
When a person runs for President of the United States
they are nominated by a political party. Today, there
are two major political parties in the United States.
One party is called the Democratic Party, and the
other party is called the Republican Party.
To find the name of the President of the United
States now, please visit: whitehouse.gov.

A donkey icon represents
the Democratic Party.

An Elephant icon represents
the Republican Party
A young woman cast her ballot in the 1964 presidential election.
Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

26

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 3: THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH

President Donald Trump, 45th & 47th President of the United States.

THE VICE PRESIDENT
The Vice President of the United States works for the
President in the Executive Branch. The Vice President
is the President of the Senate, an advisor to the
President, and a member of the President’s Cabinet.
Under the Constitution, the role of the Vice President
is very important. The Constitution says that if the
President can no longer serve, then the Vice
President becomes President. There have been
some Presidents who have not served all four years
of their term. For example, there are Presidents who
died while serving in office. When this has happened,
the Vice President becomes the President.

President William McKinley, 25th President of the United States.

To find the name of the Vice President of the United
States now, please visit: whitehouse.gov.
If both the President and the Vice President can
no longer serve, then the Speaker of the House of
Representatives becomes President.
To find the name of the current Speaker of the
House, please visit: speaker.gov.

Line of Succession
President

Vice President

Speaker of the House

27

28

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

CHAPTER 4

THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Judicial Branch.
❏ The Supreme Court.
The Judicial Branch is one branch or part of the government.
The parts of the Judicial Branch are the Supreme Court and other
federal courts. The Supreme Court is the highest court in the United
States. This means that the Supreme Court’s decision about a law or
legal case is final. The other federal courts are sometimes called lower
federal courts.
When the Founders wrote the Constitution, they did not want the
judges who serve on the Supreme Court and on other federal courts
to make decisions about the law based on politics or elections.
Judges who serve on the Supreme Court and other federal courts are
sometimes called federal judges. The Founders wanted federal judges
to make decisions based on the Constitution and the rule of law. This is
why federal judges are not elected to office. The President nominates
someone to become a federal judge on the Supreme Court or on a
lower federal court. That person must also be approved by the U.S.
Senate to become a federal judge.
The process for a person to become a federal judge is an example of
the separation of powers of government because all three branches
of government are involved. The separation of powers is important
because it stops one branch of government from becoming too
powerful.

29

U.S. Government

Federal Court System
U.S. Supreme Court
1 Court

U.S. Court of Appeals
13 Circuits

Legislative Branch
(Congress)

Executive Branch
(President)

Judicial Branch
(Supreme Court)

U.S. District Courts
94 Districts

Supreme Court Justices Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia.

30

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 4: THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
THE JUDICIAL BRANCH
One of the important roles of the Judicial Branch is to review laws.
This means that they can decide if a law follows the Constitution. In the
United States, the Constitution is the Supreme Law of the Land. This
means that everyone in the United States must follow the Constitution.
This also means that the laws that Congress writes must also follow the
Constitution. If someone in the United States thinks that a law does not
follow the Constitution, that person can bring a legal case to a federal
court to challenge the law.

Statue of Lady Justice

Each of the courts in the Judicial Branch can only review a law if there
is a legal case before it. This means that the Supreme Court and the
lower federal courts can only make a decision about a law or a legal
case when they have the legal authority to hear a case that is brought
before the court.
The Supreme Court may review a decision about a law or legal case
from a lower federal court. If the Supreme Court reviews a decision
about a law or legal case, then they must make a decision. There are
no other courts in the United States that can change the decision of
the Supreme Court. This is one reason that the Supreme Court is the
highest court in the United States.

Courtroom of the Supreme Court of the
United States.

SUPREME COURT JUSTICES
There are nine justices on the Supreme Court. The word “justice” is
another word for “judge.” After the Supreme Court reviews a case,
the justices meet to discuss the case and vote on the decision.
One justice on the Supreme Court is called the Chief Justice of the United
States. The Chief Justice has many duties. Some of the duties are:
There are nine justices on the
U.S. Supreme Court.

A majority means that more
than half of the justices vote
the same way on a case.
For example: When 9 Supreme
Court Justices hear a case, at
least 5 justices must vote the
same on the case in order to
have a majority.

● Leading the other Supreme Court justices in choosing which
cases to hear.
● Managing the courtroom when the Supreme Court is hearing
a case.
● Leading discussions with other Supreme Court justices about
deciding a case.
The Chief Justice serves as a leader on the Supreme Court, but the
justices make their own decisions when voting on each case. When a
majority of the justices vote the same way on a case, they write a
decision that explains their reasons.
To find the name of the current Chief Justice of the United States,
please visit: supremecourt.gov/about/justices.aspx.

31

32

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

CHAPTER 5

RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Bill of Rights.
❏ The rights and responsibilities of
everyone living in the United States.

❏ The rights and responsibilities of
U.S. citizens.

Under our Constitution, individuals living in the United States have
rights or freedoms. The word “freedom” is another word that means
“right.” Some rights belong to everyone living in the United States, and
some rights only belong to U.S. citizens.
After the Constitutional Convention, the people of the United States
had to approve the Constitution. Many people in the country did not
like the Constitution in 1787 because it did not include a list of rights.
Some of the Founders who were at the Constitutional Convention
began to write essays called the Federalist Papers. The Federalist
Papers supported the passage of the U.S. Constitution. The writers
of the Federalist Papers were James Madison, Alexander Hamilton,
and John Jay. The Federalist Papers included 85 essays about the

The Bill of Rights to the U.S. Constitution.

33

Constitution, and they were printed in newspapers between October 1787 –
May 1788. All of the writers of the Federalist Papers signed the essays with the
name “Publius”. The people who supported the Constitution agreed to add
amendments to the Constitution that included a list of rights. An amendment
is a change to the Constitution. Once the supporters of the Constitution
agreed to add a list of rights, many more people in the United States decided
to support the Constitution. In 1791, the first 10 amendments were added
to the Constitution. They include some of the basic rights of U.S. citizens
and individuals living in the United States. The first 10 amendments to the
Constitution are called the Bill of Rights.
The Federalist Papers supported
passing the U.S. Constitution.

RIGHTS & FREEDOMS OF EVERYONE LIVING IN THE UNITED STATES TODAY
There are five rights or freedoms in the First Amendment.

5 rights listed in the First Amendment
• Speech
• Religion
• To assemble (gather)
• The press (media)
• To petition (write to) the government

These are rights of everyone living in the
United States.

One right or freedom in the First Amendment is the Freedom of Speech. People in the U.S. have the
right to say or write what they want without fear of going to jail.
People can use their Freedom of Speech to participate in American democracy. For example, people can
participate in American democracy by writing to a newspaper or publicly giving their opinion about
an issue or policy.
Another right or freedom in the First Amendment is the Freedom of Religion. People in the U.S. have
the right to practice any religion, or not practice a religion.
The other amendments in the Bill of Rights list other types of rights. For example, the Sixth Amendment
lists some of the rights for people who have been accused of breaking the law. The Sixth Amendment
says that a person accused of breaking the law has the right to a trial with a jury to decide if that person
is innocent or guilty.
34

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 5: RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
RESPONSIBILITIES OF INDIVIDUALS LIVING IN THE UNITED STATES
Everyone living in the United States is responsible for following the
“rule of law.” This means that everyone living in the United States
must obey the law.
For example, it is the law that everyone living in the United States must
pay income taxes. The law says that each year, people are required to
send in a federal income tax form to the U.S. government. The last day
that people can send in their federal income tax forms is April 15.
Another responsibility for men who are U.S. citizens or legal permanent
residents is to register for the Selective Service. All men who are U.S.
citizens or legal residents and between the age of 18 and 26 must
register for the Selective Service.

Uniform patches and identification plates
from branches of the U.S. military.

Voting Rights Timeline
The following bullets
identify the Amendments
and dates that correspond
with each answer choice
from Q48 in the text:

Voting booth in Atascadero, California, in 2008. Photo by Ace Armstrong. Courtesy of the
Polling Place Photo Project.

VOTING IN FEDERAL ELECTIONS
In the United States, voting in federal elections is a right and a
responsibility that is only for U.S. citizens. Participating in federal
elections is how U.S. citizens vote for U.S. Representatives, U.S.
Senators, and the President.
There are four amendments to the Constitution about who can
vote in federal elections. These amendments say:
● citizens 18 and older (can vote).
● you don’t have to pay (a poll tax) to vote.
● any citizen can vote (women and men can vote).

• 26th Amendment (1971)
• 24th Amendment (1964)
• 19th Amendment (1920)
• 15th Amendment (1870)
Other potential dates that
address the expansion of
voting rights include:
• Voting Rights Act of 1965
• Civils Rights Act of 1964
• Indian Citizenship Act
of 1924

● a male citizen of any race (can vote).
Currently, U.S. citizens 18 and older can vote in federal elections.
35

NATURALIZATION AND U.S. CITIZENSHIP
The United States has welcomed immigrants from all over the world
who have helped shape and define our country.
For more information on the eligibility requirements and
process for becoming a naturalized U.S. citizen, please visit:
uscis.gov/naturalization-eligibility.
When applicants for naturalization take the Oath of Allegiance, they make
important promises of loyalty to the United States. The promises that
applicants make when they become a United States citizen are to:
● give up loyalty to other countries;
● defend the Constitution and laws of the United States;
● obey the laws of the United States;
● serve in the U.S. military (if needed);
● serve (do important work for) the nation (if needed); and
● be loyal to the United States.
During the naturalization ceremony, applicants for naturalization will raise
their right hand say the Oath of Allegiance. At that time, they become U.S.
citizens. Naturalization is one way that a person can become a U.S. citizen.
Other ways a person can become a U.S. citizen include:
● being born in the United States, under conditions set by the
14th Amendment.

To become a naturalized
U.S. citizen, a person must:
● be 18 years old;
● be a lawful permanent resident;
● submit an application for
naturalization with fees;
● meet the residence and presence
in the U.S. requirements;
● be a person of good moral
character and show attachment to
the principles and ideals of the U.S.
Constitution;
● be able to read, write, speak and
understand English and have
knowledge and an understanding
of U.S. history and government
(civics);
● complete the naturalization test
and interview process; and
● attend a naturalization ceremony
and take the Oath of Allegiance

● deriving citizenship, under the conditions set by Congress.

Applicants for naturalization take the Oath of Allegiance at a naturalization ceremony.

36

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

37

CHAPTER 6

U.S. GEOGRAPHY
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ U.S. states and territories.
❏ The U.S. borders.

❏ Mountains and rivers in
the United States.

❏ The U.S. capital.

STATES AND TERRITORIES
When the U.S. first became a country in 1776 there were 13 original
states. All of the 13 original states are located on the East Coast of the
United States.
Today, the U.S. has 50 states. This is why the American flag has 50
stars. There is one star for each state.
On August 21, 1959, Hawaii became the 50th state to join the United States.
The U.S. also has five territories. A U.S. territory is an area that is part of
the United States, but a territory is not a state.
The 13 original states are:
Massachusetts
New York

The five U.S. territories are:

Virgin Islands

Guam

New Hampshire
Massachusetts
Rhode Island

Pennsylvania

Connecticut

Puerto Rico

New Jersey

Northern
Mariana
Islands

Delaware
Virginia
North Carolina

Maryland

Atlantic Ocean

American Samoa

South
Carolina
Georgia

38

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 6 – U.S. GEOGRAPHY

n, D.C.

gto
Washin

HAWAII

VIRGIN ISLANDS

GUAM

NORTHERN
MARIANA
ISLANDS

ALASKA
PUERTO RICO

AMERICAN SAMOA

This map shows the 50 U.S. states, Washington, D.C., and the 5 U.S. territories, with Canada and Mexico

There are 50 stars in the American flag for the 50 U.S. states

39

U.S. BORDERS
The United States is located in North America, and it is bordered by an ocean on the East Coast and the
West Coast.
The U.S. is also bordered by one country to the north and another country to the south. The country that
borders the U.S. to the north is called Canada. There are 13 states in the U.S. that border Canada.
The ocean on the West Coast of the United States
is called the Pacific Ocean.

The ocean on the East Coast of the United States
is called the Atlantic Ocean.

ALASKA

GULF OF A

ME R

ICA

This map shows the 50 U.S. states and Washington, D.C., with Canada and Mexico.

The states that border Canada are:
● Maine
● New Hampshire
● Vermont
● New York
● Pennsylvania
● Ohio
● Michigan
● Minnesota
● North Dakota
● Montana
● Idaho
● Washington
● Alaska
40

The country that borders the U.S. to the south is
called Mexico. There are four states in the U.S. that
border Mexico.
The states that border Mexico are:
● California
● Arizona
● New Mexico
● Texas

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 6 – U.S. GEOGRAPHY

M

tains
oun
yM
ck
Ro

MOUNTAINS AND RIVERS
There are two large mountain ranges in the United
States. The Appalachian Mountains are in the eastern
United States, and the Rocky Mountains are in the
western United States.

r
ive

iR

cia
nM
oun
tain
s

ur

ver
Ri
siss
Mis i pp i

is

so

pp

ala

There are also many rivers in the United States. The
two longest rivers in the U.S. are the Mississippi
A
River and the Missouri River. The Mississippi River
runs north to south, and it is located in the middle
of the country. The Missouri River connects to the
Mississippi River, and it runs across several states in This map shows the two longest rivers, the Mississippi River and
the West.
the Missouri River.
WASHINGTON D.C.
The capital of the United States is called Washington, D.C.

The five U.S. territories are:
HAWAII

NORTHERN
MARIANAS
ISLANDS

AMERICAN SAMOA

ALASKA

Washington, D.C., is named after George Washington. George
Washington was the first President of the United States.
He is also known as the “Father of Our Country”.
The name of the capital has the letters “D.C.” These letters mean
“District of Columbia.” Washington, D.C., is not part of a state.
Washington, D.C., is located between the states of Maryland and
Virginia, and it is controlled by the federal government.
Each state in the United States also has a state capital. Use the map
below to find the capital of your state.

Charlotte Amalie

PUERTO RICO

Virgin Islands

Guam
VIRGIN ISLANDS
GUAM

Hagåtña

Puerto Rico
San Juan

Northern
Mariana
Islands

Saipan

American Samoa
Fagatogo

ALASKA

Juneau

HAWAII
Honolulu

This map shows the 50 U.S. states and Washington, D.C.

41

42

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 7: EARLY AMERICAN HISTORY

CHAPTER 7

EARLY AMERICAN HISTORY
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ Early American History.
❏ The Colonial Period (1607 – 1776).

❏ The people living in the North
America before 1776.

EUROPEAN COLONIES
In the 1400s, some European countries developed ships that could sail
across the ocean. Spain was the first country to send ships across the
Atlantic Ocean.
They did not know that the continents of North America and South
America were between Europe and Asia. North and South America are
sometimes called the Americas.
The Europeans also did not know that there were millions of people
living in North and South America. The people living in the Americas
before the Europeans arrived are called Native Americans.
By the 1500s, Spain had created colonies across North America and
South America. Soon, other European countries like France, Portugal,
and England started creating their own colonies in the Americas.
NATIVE AMERICANS
Native Americans lived in North and South America for around 20,000
years before the Europeans arrived.
There were many different tribes of Native American people living
in the Americas. Each Native American tribe had their own culture,
religion, traditions, language, and form of government. Many tribes
moved around and relied on hunting and gathering for food. There
were also tribes that stayed in one place and relied on farming for food.
Some tribes lived in large cities and had complex forms of government
and written languages.
43

Before the Europeans arrived,
there were more than 50 million
Native Americans living in North
and South America. More than 10
million Native Americans lived
on the land in North America
that became the United States.
After Europeans arrived in North
and South America, millions
of Native Americans died from
diseases brought by Europeans.
Many Native Americans also died
from wars and conflicts with
Europeans.
By the 1600s, there were about 6
million Native Americans living in
the Americas, and about 1 million
Native Americans still living in
North America.

Illustration of the town of Pomeiock by John White. Courtesy of the Jamestown Yorktown
Foundation collection.

THE COLONIAL PERIOD (1607 – 1776)
In 1607, the country of England created its
first permanent settlement in North America.
It was called Jamestown. This started the
period in American history called the Colonial
Period. It lasted from 1607 – 1775. During the
Colonial Period, England created 13 colonies
in North America.
Many colonists who settled in Jamestown
came to North America because they
wanted economic opportunities. Some
colonists believed that it would be easier
to buy land for farming in North America.
Others thought they could find valuable
metals like gold and silver.
The first years in Jamestown were difficult
for the colonists. Many died from hunger,
disease, or the cold winter weather. Colonists
and Native Americans also fought over who
would control the land. Both colonists and
Native Americans died during the fighting.

44

A scene of a busy street in Jamestown around 1650. Courtesy of the
National Park Service.

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 7: EARLY AMERICAN HISTORY
SLAVERY IN THE COLONIES
After the first few years, the colonists in Jamestown
began to have more success, and the number of
colonists grew. They moved to new areas and started
growing crops like tobacco and later cotton. The
colonists made a lot of money selling these crops to
England. They wanted to grow more crops, but they did
not have enough people to work on the farms.
Other European countries that had colonies took
people from Africa to the Americas and sold them
as slaves. Another term for “slave” is an “enslaved
person.” An enslaved person is someone who is forced
to work with no freedom. Millions of enslaved African
people were forced on ships and taken to North and
South America.
The first group of enslaved Africans were brought to
Jamestown in 1619. Enslaved Africans were forced to
work on farms in terrible conditions.
An image of the first enslaved people from Africa arriving in
Jamestown.

North
America
Plymouth
Jamestown

England
France
Spain
Portugal

ean
Oc
tic
an

At
l

Europe

Africa

South
America
This map shows the routes that colonists from Europe made when coming to North America and the routes that brought enslaved people from
Africa to North America and South America.

45

THE 13 ORIGINAL COLONIES
As more colonists came to Jamestown, they started to create other
settlements. Soon these settlements became known as the colony of Virginia.
In 1620, a group of English colonists called the Pilgrims created the
colony of Massachusetts. Many of these colonists came to North
America because they wanted religious freedom.
Soon more colonists from England began coming to North America and
created more colonies. They created 13 colonies on the East Coast of
North America.

“Pilgrims Going to Church,” by George
Henry Boughton. Courtesy of the Library
of Congress.

The Colonial Period ended when the colonists living in the 13 original
colonies declared their independence from Great Britain in 1776.
When the Colonial Period
started in 1607, the
colonists were part of the
country of England. England
is on the island of Britain.
The country of Scotland
is also on the island of
Britain. In 1707, England
and Scotland became
one country called Great
Britain. After 1707, the 13
original colonies were part
of Great Britain.

46

The 13 original colonies were:
● New Hampshire ● Delaware
● Massachusetts ● Maryland
● Rhode Island
● Virginia
● Connecticut
● North Carolina
● New York
● South Carolina
● New Jersey
● Georgia
● Pennsylvania

Massachusetts
New York
New Hampshire
Massachusetts
Rhode Island

Pennsylvania

Connecticut
New Jersey
Delaware

Virginia
North Carolina
South
Carolina
Georgia

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

Maryland

Atlantic Ocean

CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

CHAPTER 8

THE AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY WAR &
THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The American Revolutionary War.
❏ The Declaration of Independence.

❏ The creation of the United States of
America.

CAUSES OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY WAR
In 1775, the colonists went to war with Great Britain. This war
was called the American Revolutionary War. During the American
Revolutionary War, the colonists declared their independence from
Great Britain, and they created the United States of America. The
American Revolutionary War started in 1775. It ended in 1783 when
Great Britain signed a treaty that said they agreed that the United
States was an independent country.
The reason the colonists fought the British was because they did
not have self-government.
When the colonists created the 13 colonies, each colony had its own
colonial congress. A colonial congress was a legislative branch that
made laws for each colony.
Great Britain allowed the colonies to have a colonial congress as long
as they paid taxes to Great Britain, obeyed all other British laws, and
provided Great Britain with materials like cotton, tobacco, and rice.
In the 1760s, Great Britain was fighting a war both in Europe and in
North America. Great Britain needed help paying for the war. They
passed laws that increased taxes on the 13 original colonies.
The colonists did not think it was fair that Great Britain raised their

47

“Washington Taking Command of the American Army,” by Currier & Ives. Courtesy of the National Archives, 532915.

taxes without allowing representatives from the colonies to vote on it.
Many colonists began to protest against the taxes because they thought
it was not fair to have taxation without representation.
Great Britain responded by passing laws to punish the colonists. Great
Britain made the colonists pay more taxes and made the colonial
congresses illegal. These taxes and laws made the colonists even
angrier. Many colonists no longer wanted to be part of Great Britain.
They wanted to create their own country and govern themselves.
In 1775, colonists in Massachusetts began fighting the British. Soon,
all 13 original colonies were fighting against Great Britain. The
colonists created an army, and George Washington was named the
general of the colonial army during the American Revolutionary War.
This is one reason that George Washington is called the “Father of
Our Country”.

48

“George Washington at Princeton,” by
Charles Willson Peale. Courtesy of the U.S.
Senate.

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 8: THE AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY WAR AND THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE
THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE
The Declaration of Independence was adopted on July 4, 1776.
The Declaration of Independence announced our independence
from Great Britain. This is why we celebrate Independence Day
on July 4th.
Another word for “Declaration” is “statement.” Another word for
“Independence” is “freedom.” The Declaration of Independence is a
“statement of freedom.”
Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence.
In the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson wrote that
everyone has the right to:
● life;
● liberty; and
● the pursuit of happiness.

The Declaration of Independence.
Courtesy of the National Archives.

In “Declaration of Independence,” by John Trumbull, Thomas
Assembly room of Independence Hall where the Declaration
Jefferson and his committee present the formal statement of
of Independence and the U.S. Constitution were both signed.
independence from Great Britain. Courtesy of the National Archives. Courtesy of the National Park Service.

When the colonists adopted the Declaration of Independence, they
created the United States of America. The 13 original colonies became
the 13 original states.

Massachusetts
New York
New Hampshire
Massachusetts

● New Hampshire
● Massachusetts
● Rhode Island
● Connecticut
● New York
● New Jersey
● Pennsylvania

Rhode Island

Pennsylvania

The 13 original states are:
● Delaware
● Maryland
● Virginia
● North Carolina
● South Carolina
● Georgia

Connecticut
New Jersey
Delaware

Virginia
North Carolina

Maryland

Atlantic Ocean

South
Carolina
Georgia

49

WINNING THE AMERICAN REVOLUTIONARY WAR
The United States stopped fighting with Great Britain in 1781. The British Army surrendered to the United
States at the Battle of Yorktown in the state of Virginia. There was no more fighting, but the American
Revolutionary War did not officially end until the U.S. and Great Britain signed a treaty in 1783. In the treaty,
Great Britain agreed that the United States won the American Revolutionary War and that the United States
was an independent nation.

American, British and Hessian soldiers fight furiously at the Siege of Yorktown. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

Benjamin Franklin was a Founder who was famous for many things.
One thing Benjamin Franklin was famous for was being a diplomat.
A “diplomat” is someone who travels to other countries to represent
the United States. Benjamin Franklin was the diplomat who negotiated
the treaty with Great Britain in 1783.
Other answer choices for this question:
● Oldest member of the
Constitutional Convention
● First Postmaster General of the
United States

● Writer of Poor Richard’s Almanac
● Started first free libraries

Benjamin Franklin

50

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

51

CHAPTER 9

A NEW GOVERNMENT AND
AN EXPANDING NATION
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Constitutional Convention.
❏ The conflicts caused by expansion.

❏ The expansion of U.S. territory from
the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean.

THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION
The Constitution was written in 1787. It was written 11 years
after the Declaration of Independence was adopted in 1776.
After the United States won the American Revolutionary War, many
people were not happy with the way the country was being governed.
Many of the states disagreed on issues like trade, taxes, and other laws.
Some of the country’s leaders like George Washington, Alexander
Hamilton, and James Madison believed that the United States needed
a new government.
In 1787, leaders from all the 13 original states met in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania to create a new government. This meeting was called the
Constitutional Convention. The Founders wrote the Constitution at
the Constitutional Convention.
After the Founders wrote the Constitution, the 13 original states had to
vote for the Constitution.
Not everyone in the country wanted the new Constitution. James
Madison, Alexander Hamilton, and John Jay wrote papers to
support passing the U.S. Constitution. These papers are called
the Federalist Papers. They published the Federalist Papers in
newspapers across the United States.
52

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 9: A NEW GOVERNMENT AND AN EXPANDING NATION
When the states voted to pass the Constitution, the United States created a new government. When
the new government was created, George Washington was elected the first President of the United
States. He served as President from 1789 – 1797. George Washington is also known as the “Father of
Our Country”.

George Washington takes the Oath of
Office at Federal Hall in New York City.

The Federalist Papers supported passing the
U.S. Constitution.

The Constitution of the United States. Courtesy of the National Archives.

53

THE U.S. BETWEEN 1787 – 1803
When the Constitution was written in 1787, the U.S. had 13 states on the East Coast of North America. The
United States also claimed to own the land between the 13 original states and the Mississippi River as U.S.
territory. The word “claim” means that other European countries that created colonies in the Americas
agreed that this territory was owned by the United States.
At this time, there were still over 600,000 Native Americans living on the land claimed by the United States.
Native American tribes had lived for thousands of years in the territory that the U.S. claimed. They did
not agree that the U.S. owned the land. This led to many conflicts and wars in the 1800s because Native
Americans were forced to defend their people, their culture, and their land.
THE LOUISIANA TERRITORY
In 1803, the United States purchased the Louisiana Territory from France. The Louisiana Territory included
a large amount of land between the Mississippi River and the Rocky Mountains. France sold the Louisiana
Territory to the United States because they needed money to pay for wars they were fighting in Europe.

This map shows the U.S. in 1803 in green and the Louisiana Territory in pink.

54

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 9: A NEW GOVERNMENT AND AN EXPANDING NATION
When the U.S. purchased the Louisiana Territory from France, more people began moving west into the new
territory. This led to more conflicts and wars between people from the United States and Native Americans.
For example, between the 1830s – 1850s, people from five Native American nations in the southern United
States were forced to move from their homeland to land in the Louisiana Territory. The five Native American
nations were the Cherokee, Muscogee, Seminole, Chickasaw, and Choctaw. This event is called the “Trail of
Tears” because thousands of people died from disease and starvation on the trail during the journey.
Throughout the 1800s, people from the United States continued to move West. This led to more conflicts
between Native Americans and people from the U.S., and more Native Americans were forced to move off
their land.
Native Americans are also called American Indians. Today, there are over 500 American Indian tribes in the
United States.

Some of the American
Indian tribes in the
United States are:

This map shows the U.S. in the 1850s.

● Cherokee

● Cheyenne

● Navajo

● Arawak

● Sioux

● Shawnee

● Chippewa

● Mohegan

● Choctaw

● Huron

● Pueblo

● Oneida

● Apache

● Lakota

● Iroquois

● Crow

● Creek

● Teton

● Blackfeet

● Hopi

● Seminole

● Inuit

This map shows the journey that Native Americans were forced to take during the Trail
of Tears.

55

THE MEXICAN-AMERICAN WAR
In 1845, Texas became the 28th state to join the United States. Until
1836, Texas was part of Mexico. Texas fought for independence from
Mexico and became its own country from 1836 – 1845.
At that time, Mexico still claimed much of the land in the southwest
between the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific Ocean. Mexico also
wanted Texas to be part of Mexico again.
In 1846, the U.S. went to war with Mexico over Texas and other land
that Mexico controlled in the southwest. This war is called the MexicanAmerican War.
The Mexican-American War was one war fought by the United
States in the 1800s.
The U.S. won the Mexican-American War in 1848. After the war, the
United States and Mexico signed a treaty. In the treaty, Mexico agreed
that Texas was part of the United States. Mexico also agreed to sell
the land it claimed in the southwest to the U.S. The territory the U.S.
gained from Mexico later became the states of California, Nevada,
and Utah. It also included territory that became parts of the states of
Arizona, Colorado, New Mexico, and Wyoming.

Colonel Charles May’s troops charge at the
Battle of Resaca de la Palma during the
Mexican-American War.

Other wars that the United
States fought in the 1800s
include:
● War of 1812
● Civil War
● Spanish-American War

Today, the states of California, Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas all
border Mexico.

This map shows the United States after the Mexican-American War.

56

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 9: A NEW GOVERNMENT AND AN EXPANDING NATION
EXPANDING INTO THE WEST
In 1850, California became the 31st state to join the United States, and it
was the first state to join the United States that bordered the Pacific Ocean.
By 1860, there were 33 states in the United States. The Atlantic
Ocean bordered the U.S. on the East Coast, and the Pacific Ocean
bordered the U.S. on the West Coast. The U.S. also claimed all of
the land between Canada and Mexico that today makes up the first 48
states to join the United States.
The growth of the country not only led to conflicts with Native
Americans and Mexico, it also led to conflicts between people from the
United States moving to the West. The biggest conflict was over slavery.
The conflicts over slavery in the South and the West were one
problem that led to the Civil War.

Other answer choices for
this question:
● economic reasons
● states’ rights

57

CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

CHAPTER 10

THE CIVIL WAR
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ Slavery during the 1800s.
❏ The Civil War.

❏ Abraham Lincoln.
❏ The end of slavery in the U.S.
SLAVERY IN THE 1800S
During the 1800s, the states in the southern United States began to
depend more on growing cotton and other crops for sale to countries in
Europe. Landowners depended on enslaved people to do the work.
As the U.S. gained more territory, many people who owned slaves in
the South wanted to move to the new states and territories in the West.
They wanted to find more land to grow crops like cotton, corn, and
tobacco. They also wanted slavery to be legal in the West so they could
bring enslaved people to work on the farms and grow crops.
Most northern states passed laws against slavery, and many people
in the North did not want slavery to be legal in the West. When people
from the North and the South began moving west in the 1800s, there
were many conflicts about whether slavery should be legal in the new
states and territories. Congress began to pass laws that said where
slavery was legal in the West and where it was not.

Picking cotton on a Georgia plantation. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

58

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 10: THE CIVIL WAR
FIGHTING FOR CIVIL RIGHTS AND FIGHTING TO
END SLAVERY
Between 1800 -1860 there were people who thought
that slavery should be illegal and that everyone in the
U.S. should have civil rights. For example, Frederick
Douglass escaped from slavery and became an
important civil rights leader in the 1800s. He is famous
for giving speeches and writing books about ending
slavery and protecting civil rights for all people.
Susan B. Anthony is another person who fought
for civil rights during the 1800s. She agreed with
Frederick Douglass that slavery should be illegal.
Susan B. Anthony also fought for women’s rights.
She wanted women to be treated equally to men, and
she wanted women to have the right to vote in the
United States.

Frederick Douglass. Courtesy
of the National Park Service.

Susan B. Anthony. Courtesy of
the Library of Congress.

THE BEGINNING OF THE CIVIL WAR
In 1861, the U.S. started fighting the Civil War. The Civil War is one war that the U.S. fought during the
1800s. The Civil War was fought between the North and the South between 1861 – 1865.
One problem that led to the Civil War was slavery. The states in the South believed that slavery should
be legal. They were afraid that states in the North wanted to make slavery illegal in the whole country. The
states in the North were also afraid that the Southern states wanted to make slavery legal in the whole
country.
The Civil War started in 1861 after 11 states in the South left the United States and tried to create their own
country. They called their country the Confederate States of America. The states in the North were still called
the United States of America.

Civil War Battle of Antietam.

The United States in 1861, at the start of the Civil War.

59

ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Abraham Lincoln led the United States during the Civil War. He was
the 16th President of the United States, and he served as President
from 1861 – 1865.
During the Civil War, Abraham Lincoln signed the Emancipation
Proclamation. The Emancipation Proclamation freed the slaves in
most Southern states. “Emancipation” is another word for “freedom.”
“Proclamation” is another word for “announcement.” The Emancipation
Proclamation announced that people who were enslaved in most
Southern states were free. Most people enslaved in Southern states were
not actually freed until after the Civil War was over.
The North won the Civil War when the South surrendered in April 1865.
A few days after the South surrendered to the North, Abraham Lincoln
was assassinated. The word “assassinated” means that a person is
murdered for political reasons.

Abraham Lincoln

Abraham Lincoln visits a battlefield during the Civil War.

60

“Emancipation,” by Thomas Nast. Courtesy
of the Library of Congress

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 10: THE CIVIL WAR
THE END OF SLAVERY
After the Civil War was over, all the people who were enslaved in Southern states were freed. On June 19,
1865, enslaved people living in Galveston, Texas, became the last to learn that the Civil War was over and
that they were free. June 19th became a holiday called Juneteenth. Today, Juneteenth is a national U.S.
holiday that recognizes and celebrates the end of slavery in the United States.
On December 6, 1865, the 13th Amendment was added to the Constitution. An amendment is a change to
the Constitution. The 13th Amendment says that slavery is illegal in the United States.

61

CHAPTER 1: THE U.S. CONSTITUTION

CHAPTER 11

AMERICAN HISTORY: 1900-2001
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The wars the U.S.
fought in the 1900s.

❏ The Great Depression.
❏ The Cold War.

❏ The Civil Rights Movement.
❏ September 11, 2001.

By the 1900s, more people in the United States were moving to cities to
work in factories, and immigrants from all over the world were moving
to the U.S. The United States’ economy was starting to grow, and soon
the U.S. would begin to increase the size of its military.

Rubber-making factories on a river in 1897. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

62

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 11: AMERICAN HISTORY 1900 - 2001
WORLD WAR I
In 1914, a war started in Europe. When the war started, it was called The
Great War. Today, the Great War is called World War I. There were many
countries fighting on each side of the war during World War I.
World War I is one war fought by the United States in the 1900s.
World War I was fought by countries from around the world from 1914
– 1918, but the U.S. did not join the war until 1917. The U.S. fought in
World War I from 1917 – 1918.
World War I ended on November 11, 1918. Today, we celebrate Veterans’
Day every November 11 in honor of the men and women (alive and
deceased) who have served in the military. Veterans’ Day is a national
U.S. Holiday.
Woodrow Wilson was President
during World War I. Woodrow
Wilson was the 28th President
of the United States, and he was
President from 1913 – 1921.

American soldiers in a trench in France
during World War I. Courtesy of the Library
of Congress.

Two sailors read a newspaper with the
headline “Great War Ends.” Courtesy of the
Library of Congress.

Other wars that the United States
fought in the 1900s include:
● World War II ● Vietnam War
● Korean War ● (Persian) Gulf War

THE GREAT DEPRESSION
When President Roosevelt was elected in 1933, the U.S.
was in the Great Depression. The Great Depression was
the worst time for the U.S. economy in American history.
The economic system in the United States is called
a “capitalist economy”. It is also sometimes called
a “market economy”. In a market economy, the
government does not control the economy. Also, people
are free to start a business and make money.
The Great Depression had terrible effects on the
American economy. During the Great Depression, banks
and businesses around the country closed, and many
people could not a get a job. A lot of people in the U.S.
lost their homes and their money.

Statue of a Depression
breadline at the Franklin
Delano Roosevelt Memorial,
Washington, D.C. Courtesy of
the Library of Congress.

A migrant agricultural worker’s
family during the Great
Depression. Photograph by
Dorothea Lange. Courtesy of
the Library of Congress.

63

FRANKLIN ROOSEVELT
In 1933, Franklin Roosevelt
was elected the 32nd President
of the United States. Franklin
Roosevelt was the longestserving President in U.S.
history, and he was elected
President four times. He was
President from 1933 – 1945,
and he died while serving as
President in 1945. In 1951,
the 22nd amendment was
added to the Constitution. An
amendment is a change to
the Constitution. The 22nd
Amendment says a person can
only be elected President two
times.

WORLD WAR II
In 1939, World War II started when Germany attacked Poland. Germany
then began to attack other European countries. Japan and Italy agreed
to fight on the same side as Germany.
World War II was one war that the U.S. fought in the 1900s.
The U.S. fought in World War II from 1941 – 1945.
On December 7, 1941, Japan attacked the United States at a U.S. naval
base in Hawaii called Pearl Harbor. On December 8, President Roosevelt
announced that the U.S. would enter World War II. Later that day,
Congress voted to declare war. The power to declare war is one power
that belongs to the federal government under the Constitution.
During World War II, the U.S. fought Japan, Germany, and Italy.
The U.S. did not fight these countries alone. The United Kingdom, France,
Russia, and other countries fought against Japan, Germany, and Italy.
World War II ended in 1945 when Germany and Japan surrendered.

Franklin Roosevelt was
President during two important
periods in American history.
He was President during the
Great Depression and World
War II.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt signing
the Declaration of War against Japan
on December 8, 1941. Courtesy of the
National Archives.

64

Bombing of USS West Virginia, Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 11: AMERICAN HISTORY 1900 - 2001
THE COLD WAR
When the United States fought in World War II, the U.S. and Russia fought
on the same side. Russia controlled many nearby countries. Russia, and
the countries it controlled, were called the Soviet Union. The U.S. and
the Soviet Union did not trust each other. After World War II, the United
States and the Soviet Union became involved in the Cold War.
During the Cold War, the main concern of the United States was the
spread of communism. Communism is a type of government in which
the government plans the economy and controls most of the resources.
Also, in most communist countries, the government is controlled by
one political party. Russia and all the countries in the Soviet Union
were communist. Other countries like China and North Korea were also
becoming communist. The U.S. wanted to stop other countries around
the world from becoming communist.
The Cold War did not have soldiers from the U.S. and the Soviet Union
fighting each other in battles. Instead, the U.S. and the Soviet Union had
diplomats and spies who used information and threats against each other.
In 1953, Dwight Eisenhower became the 34th President of the United
States. He served from 1953 – 1961. Before he was President,
Eisenhower was a general in World War II. While he was President,
the U.S. and the Soviet Union were building large armies in case they
went to war. The U.S. and the Soviet Union also began trying to send
rockets into space. In 1957, the Soviet Union became the first country
to send a satellite into space. In 1969, the U.S. became the first country
to land a person on the moon.

General Dwight D. Eisenhower, 1945.
Courtesy of the National Archives.

The Cold War ended in 1991 when the Soviet Union collapsed.

Soviet Union
United States

Atl
ant
ic
Oc
e

an

This map shows the United States and the Soviet Union during the Cold War.

Astronaut Edwin E. Aldrin Jr., on the Moon.
Courtesy of NASA.

65

THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT
During the 1900s, many states had laws that discriminated against
people based on their race. Some of these laws said that people
of different races had to go to separate schools, eat in separate
restaurants, and live in separate neighborhoods. Other laws made
it difficult for people to vote based on their race. Many of the states
that had these laws wanted to separate Black Americans from White
Americans. Some states had laws that discriminated against Latino
Americans and Asian Americans.
Soon after World War II ended, many people in the United States began
a movement to end racial discrimination. The movement to end
racial discrimination in the United States is called the Civil Rights
Movement.

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., civil rights leader.

During the Civil Rights Movement, many people worked to end the laws
that separated people based on their race or made it difficult for people
to vote based on their race. For example, Martin Luther King, Jr.,
fought for civil rights. He was a leader in the Civil Rights Movement
who organized peaceful protests against racial discrimination and laws
that separated people by race. A lot of his work focused on fighting for
civil rights for Black Americans, but he wanted all people in the United
States to have civil rights.
There were also many Latino Americans, Asian Americans, and people
from other communities that helped lead the fight for civil rights. For
example, Cesar Chavez and Dolores Huerta were civil rights leaders
from the Latino American community.

Dolores Huerta, civil rights leader.

The Civil Rights Movement led to many
changes in the United States. Martin Luther
King, Jr., and other civil rights leaders were
able to convince Congress to pass two laws that
protect civil rights and voting rights. In 1964,
Congress passed a law called the Civil Rights
Act. This law says it is illegal to discriminate
against someone based on their race, religion,
sex, or national origin. In 1965, Congress
passed another law called the Voting Rights
Act. This law says that states cannot deny
people the right to vote based on their race.
Today, Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a national
holiday. We celebrate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
on the third Monday in January.
The March on Washington in 1963.

66

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 11: AMERICAN HISTORY 1900 - 2001
SEPTEMBER 11, 2001
On September 11, 2001, terrorists attacked the
United States.
Terrorists hijacked four airplanes. Two airplanes
crashed into the World Trade Center in New York
City. One plane crashed into the Pentagon in
Arlington, Virginia, near Washington, D.C. The
passengers on the fourth plane fought the terrorists
and the plane crashed in Shanksville, Pennsylvania.
Almost 3,000 people died in the September 11th
terrorist attacks. The September 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks were the worst attacks on the United States’
homeland since Japan attacked Pearl Harbor in 1941.

Firefighters unfurl a large American flag over the scarred stone
of the Pentagon on September 12, 2001. White House photo by
Paul Morse.

Rescue workers amid debris following September 11th terrorist attack on World Trade Center, New York City.

67

TEST YOUR KNOWLEDGE…

68

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 12: AMERICAN SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS

CHAPTER 12

AMERICAN SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS
In this chapter, you will learn about:
❏ The Statue of Liberty. ❏ The national anthem.
❏ The American flag.
❏ National holidays that have special meaning in the United States.
AMERICAN SYMBOLS
The Statue of Liberty
The Statue of Liberty is a famous symbol of the United States. In 1886,
France gave the statue to the United States as a symbol of friendship.
It is a symbol of freedom and democracy. The Statue of Liberty is in
New York Harbor on Liberty Island. Every year, over 4 million people
from around the world visit the Statue of Liberty.
The statue is of a woman holding a torch in her right hand and a tablet
in her left hand. The tablet has the date July 4, 1776, on it. July 4, 1776,
is when the Declaration of Independence was adopted.

Statue of Liberty. Courtesy of the Library of Congress.

69

Ellis Island
Ellis Island was an immigration station in New York Harbor. Ellis Island began receiving immigrants to the
United States on January 1, 1892. Over the next 62 years, more than 12 million immigrants arrived in the
United States through Ellis Island. Currently the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island are National Historic Sites.
For more information on the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island, please visit: nps.gov/stli.

Immigration station at Ellis Island.

Great Hall at Ellis Island immigration station.

Angel Island
Angel Island was another important immigration station on the West Coast. The Pacific Ocean is on the West
Coast of the United States. Between 1910 and 1940, Angel Island processed nearly 1 million immigrants that
crossed the Pacific Ocean. Many Asian Americans can trace their family history through Angel Island.

Immigration Station on Angel Island.

70

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 12: AMERICAN SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS
The American Flag
The American flag is an important symbol of the United States. Like the Statue of Liberty, it is also a symbol
of freedom. The colors of the flag are red, white, and blue. Each color on the flag has a meaning:
● Red is a symbol for bravery.
● White is a symbol for purity.
● Blue is a symbol for justice.
The flag has 13 red and white stripes. The stripes represent the 13 original colonies.
There are 50 stars on the flag. Each star represents a state.

The Pledge of Allegiance
We show loyalty to the flag and
the United States when we say
the Pledge of Allegiance.
During naturalization ceremonies,
everyone attending the ceremony
is asked to say the Pledge of
Allegiance. When we say it, we
stand, turn toward the flag, and
put our right hand over our heart.

Students recite the Pledge of Allegiance.

71

The National Anthem
The name of the national anthem is
“The Star-Spangled Banner”.
“Spangled” refers to the stars on the flag that look
like they are shining in night sky. The word “banner”
means flag.
The Star-Spangled Banner was written by Francis Scott
Key. He wrote it about seeing the American flag after
a battle during the War of 1812. The War of 1812 was
one war the U.S. fought in the 1800s.
In “The Star-Spangled Banner,” by Percy Moran, Francis Scott Key
reaches toward the flag flying over Fort McHenry.

AMERICAN HOLIDAYS
The following holidays are national holidays.
National holidays are sometimes called “federal
holidays” because they were passed by Congress
and signed into law by the President.
The following federal holidays relate to other
content from the 128 Civics Questions and Answers.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day (Third Monday in January)
Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is a day that we honor the
life and work of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., was a church and community
leader. He fought for civil rights by working to
protect the rights of individuals listed in the Bill
of Rights. For example, Martin Luther King, Jr.
believed that everyone should have rights and
freedoms listed in the First Amendment. The
First Amendment protects freedom of worship,
speech, the press, assembly, and the right to ask
the government for a change.

In 1965, Martin Luther King, Jr., and other civil rights
leaders, like John Lewis, helped to organize a march
from Selma, Alabama, to Montgomery, Alabama.
They organized the march to support voting rights
for all U.S. citizens. Soon after the march from Selma
to Montgomery, Congress passed a law called the
Voting Rights Act of 1965.
Martin Luther King, Jr., was awarded the Nobel Prize
for Peace in 1964. He was assassinated on April 4, 1968.
The third Monday in January is Martin Luther King,
Jr. Day. It is a national holiday. There is also a
memorial in Washington, D.C., to honor him.

Martin Luther King, Jr., led many of the events during
the civil rights movement. The civil rights movement
tried to end racial discrimination. In 1963, Martin
Luther King, Jr., led the March on Washington for
Jobs and Freedom. He gave his famous “I Have a
Dream” speech in front of the Lincoln Memorial.
Martin Luther King, Jr., gave his famous “I Have a Dream” speech at
the Lincoln Memorial in 1963.

72

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 12: AMERICAN SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS
Presidents’ Day (Third Monday in February)
We celebrate Presidents’ Day to honor George
Washington and Abraham Lincoln.
George Washington was the first president of
the United States. He is also called the “Father of
Our Country”. President Washington was born on
February 22.
Abraham Lincoln was the 16th President of the United
States. He led the United States during the Civil
War. President Lincoln was born on February 12.
We celebrate Presidents’ Day on the third Monday in
February because it is between President Washington’s
birthday and President Lincoln’s birthday.
Memorial Day (Last Monday in May)
Memorial Day honors men and women who died in
service to the United States. Memorial Day is the last
Monday in May.

“George Washington at
Princeton,” by Charles Willson
Peale. Courtesy of the U.S.
Senate.

Abraham Lincoln. Courtesy of
the Library of Congress.

U.S. Holidays
● New Year’s Day (January 1).
● Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr.
(Third Monday in January).

Memorial Day was originally called Decoration Day,
from decorating graves with flowers, wreaths, and
flags. People in the United States started to observe
Memorial Day more widely soon after the Civil War.
The Civil War was one war the U.S. fought in the
1800s.

● Washington’s Birthday or Presidents’ Day
(Third Monday in February).

Today, Memorial Day is a national holiday. It is
commemorated at Arlington National Cemetery each
year with a ceremony in which a small American flag
is placed on each grave. We also fly the American flag
at half-staff to honor those who died in service to the
United States.

● Columbus Day (Second Monday in October).

Arlington National Cemetery

● Memorial Day (Last Monday in May).
● Juneteenth National Independence Day (June 19).
● Independence Day (July 4).
● Labor Day (First Monday in September).
● Veterans Day (November 11).
● Thanksgiving Day (Fourth Thursday in November).
● Christmas Day (December 25).

A member of the U.S. Army honor guard walks past the Tomb of the
Unknown Soldier at Arlington National Cemetery.

73

Juneteenth (June 19)
Juneteenth is a national holiday that recognizes the end of slavery in the United States.
In 1863, President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. The Emancipation
Proclamation said the enslaved people in the Southern states were free. Slavery did not actually end
until the Civil War ended in 1865. On June 19, 1865, enslaved people in Galveston, Texas, became the last to
learn that they were free. This is why June 19th is called Juneteenth.
Independence Day (July 4)
Independence Day, or the Fourth of July, celebrates the Declaration of
Independence, or the birth of the nation.
The Declaration of Independence announced America’s
independence from Britain. Thomas Jefferson wrote the
Declaration of Independence as a statement of freedom from unfair
treatment from Great Britain. The Declaration of Independence was
adopted on July 4, 1776.
The Declaration of Independence highlights the importance of selfgovernment in the United States. It also inspired many countries
around the world to declare their own freedom.
Every year we celebrate Independence Day on July 4.

Independence Day celebrations at
Independence Hall in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.

Military honor guard at a Veteran’s Day parade.

74

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

CHAPTER 12: AMERICAN SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS
Veterans Day (November 11)
Veterans Day is a national holiday when we honor individuals who
have served in the U.S. Armed Forces (alive or deceased) in service of the
United States.
Veterans Day was originally called Armistice Day and celebrated the
end of World War I, which ended on November 11, 1918. World War I
is one war the U.S. fought in the 1900s. Woodrow Wilson was the
President of the United States during World War I. Armistice Day
was officially recognized by U.S. President Woodrow Wilson in 1919.
It began to be observed throughout the world, honoring those who
fought to end of the “Great War.”
In 1954, U.S. veterans asked Congress to write a law that changed the
name of Armistice Day to Veterans Day. The U.S. Congress makes
federal laws. On June 1, 1954, Congress passed a law for Veterans Day
to be a national holiday to honor men and women (alive or deceased)
who have served in the U.S. military.
Today, we celebrate Veterans Day each year on November 11.

“Raising the Flag on Iwo Jima,”
photographed by Joe Rosenthal.
Courtesy of the Associated Press, 1945.

Thanksgiving (Fourth Thursday in November)
Thanksgiving is a national U.S. holiday that is celebrated on the fourth Thursday in November.
Thanksgiving celebrates a harvest meal shared by Native Americans and English colonists in 1621. In
November 1621, English colonists were trying to create a colony in Massachusetts. A Native American tribe
called the Wampanoag gathered with the colonists in the fall for a harvest feast.
Today, the people in the United States gather with family and friends on Thanksgiving to share a meal and
reflect on the reasons why they are thankful.

An early Thanksgiving celebration.

75

76

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

INDEX
A: Principles of American Government
1.

What is the form of government of
the United States?
• Republic
• Constitution-based federal republic
• Representative democracy

2.

What is the supreme law of the land? *
• (U.S.) Constitution

3.

Name one thing the U.S. Constitution does.
• Forms the government
• Defines powers of government
• Defines the parts of government
• Protects the rights of the people

4.

The U.S. Constitution starts with the
words“We the People.” What does
“We the People” mean?
• Self-government
• Popular sovereignty
• Consent of the governed
• People should govern themselves
• (Example of) social contract

5.

How are changes made to
the U.S. Constitution?
• Amendments
• The amendment process

6.

What does the Bill of Rights protect?
• (The basic) rights of Americans
• (The basic) rights of people living in the
United States

7.

How many amendments does the
U.S. Constitution have? *
• Twenty-seven (27)

8.

Why is the Declaration of Independence
important?
• It says America is free from British control.
• It says all people are created equal.
• It identifies inherent rights.
• It identifies individual freedoms.

9.

What founding document said the American
colonies were free from Britain?
• Declaration of Independence

10. Name two important ideas from the
Declaration of Independence and
the U.S. Constitution.
• Equality
• Liberty
• Social contract
• Natural rights
• Limited government
• Self-government
11. The words “Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of
Happiness” are in what founding document?
• Declaration of Independence
12. What is the economic system of
the United States?*
• Capitalism
• Free market economy
13. What is the rule of law?
• Everyone must follow the law.
• Leaders must obey the law.
• Government must obey the law.
• No one is above the law.

77

128 CIVICS TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
14. Many documents influenced the
U.S. Constitution. Name one.
• Declaration of Independence
• Articles of Confederation
• Federalist Papers
• Anti-Federalist Papers
• Virginia Declaration of Rights
• Fundamental Orders of Connecticut
• Mayflower Compact
• Iroquois Great Law of Peace
15. There are three branches of government. Why?
• So one part does not become too powerful
• Checks and balances
• Separation of powers
B: System of Government
16. Name the three branches of government.
• Legislative, executive, and judicial
• Congress, president, and the courts
17. The President of the United States is in
charge of which branch of government?
• Executive branch
18. What part of the federal government
writes laws?
• (U.S.) Congress
• (U.S. or national) legislature
• Legislative branch
19. What are the two parts of the U.S. Congress?
• Senate and House (of Representatives)
20. Name one power of the U.S. Congress. *
• Writes laws
• Declares war
• Makes the federal budget
78

21. How many U.S. senators are there?
• One hundred (100)
22. How long is a term for a U.S. senator?
• Six (6) years
23. Who is one of your state’s U.S. senators now?
• Answers will vary. [District of Columbia
residents and residents of U.S. territories
should answer that D.C. (or the territory
where the applicant lives) has no U.S.
senators.]
24. How many voting members are in
the House of Representatives?
• Four hundred thirty-five (435)
25. How long is a term for a member of
the House of Representatives?
• Two (2) years
26. Why do U.S. representatives serve
shorter terms than U.S. senators?
• To more closely follow public opinion
27. How many senators does each state have?
• Two (2)
28. Why does each state have two senators?
• Equal representation (for small states)
• The Great Compromise (Connecticut
Compromise)
29. Name your U.S. representative.
• Answers will vary. [Residents of territories
with nonvoting Delegates or Resident
Commissioners may provide the name of that
Delegate or Commissioner. Also acceptable
is any statement that the territory has no
(voting) representatives in Congress.]

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

INDEX
30. What is the name of the Speaker of the
House of Representatives now?*
• Visit uscis.gov/citizenship/testupdates for
the name of the Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
31. Who does a U.S. senator represent?
• Citizens of their state
• People of their state
32. Who elects U.S. senators?
• Citizens from their state
33. Who does a member of the House
of Representatives represent?
• Citizens in their (congressional) district
• Citizens in their district
• People from their (congressional) district
• People in their district
34. Who elects members of the
House of Representatives?
• Citizens from their (congressional) district
35. Some states have more representatives
than other states. Why?
• (Because of) the state’s population
• (Because) they have more people
• (Because) some states have more people
36. The President of the United States is
elected for how many years?*
• Four (4) years
37. The President of the United States
can serve only two terms. Why?
• (Because of) the 22nd Amendment
• To keep the president from becoming too
powerful

38. What is the name of the President of
the United States now?*
• Visit uscis.gov/citizenship/testupdates for the
name of the President of the United States.
39. What is the name of the Vice President of
the United States now?*
• Visit uscis.gov/citizenship/testupdates
for the name of the Vice President of the
United States.
40. If the president can no longer serve,
who becomes president?
• The Vice President (of the United States)
41. Name one power of the president.
• Signs bills into law
• Vetoes bills
• Enforces laws
• Commander in Chief (of the military)
• Chief diplomat
• Appoints federal judges
42. Who is Commander in Chief
of the U.S. military?
• The President (of the United States)
43. Who signs bills to become laws?
• The President (of the United States)
44. Who vetoes bills? *
• The President (of the United States)
45. Who appoints federal judges?
• The President (of the United States)

79

128 CIVICS TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
46. The executive branch has
many parts. Name one.
• President (of the United States)
• Cabinet
• Federal departments and agencies

49. Why is the Electoral College important?
• It decides who is elected president.
• It provides a compromise between the
popular election of the president and
congressional selection.

47. What does the President’s Cabinet do?
• Advises the President (of the United States)

50. What is one part of the judicial branch?
• Supreme Court
• Federal Courts

48. What are two Cabinet-level positions?
• Attorney General
• Secretary of Agriculture
• Secretary of Commerce
• Secretary of Education
• Secretary of Energy
• Secretary of Health and Human Services
• Secretary of Homeland Security
• Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
• Secretary of the Interior
• Secretary of Labor
• Secretary of State
• Secretary of Transportation
• Secretary of the Treasury
• Secretary of Veterans Affairs
• Secretary of War (Defense)
• Vice-President
• Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency
• Administrator of the Small Business
Administration
• Director of the Central Intelligence Agency
• Director of the Office of Management and
Budget
• Director of National Intelligence
• United States Trade Representative

51. What does the judicial branch do?
• Reviews laws
• Explains laws
• Resolves disputes (disagreements) about the law
• Decides if a law goes against the (U.S.)
Constitution
52. What is the highest court in the United States?*
• Supreme Court
53. How many seats are on the Supreme Court?
• Nine (9)
54. How many Supreme Court justices are
usually needed to decide a case?
• Five (5)
55. How long do Supreme Court justices serve?
• (For) life
• Lifetime appointment
• (Until) retirement
56. Supreme Court justices serve for life. Why?
• To be independent (of politics)
• To limit outside (political) influence
57. Who is the Chief Justice of the
United States now?
• Visit uscis.gov/citizenship/testupdates for the
name of the Chief Justice of the United States.

80

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

INDEX
58. Name one power that is only for
the federal government.
• Print paper money
• Mint coins
• Declare war
• Create an army
• Make treaties
• Set foreign policy
59. Name one power that is only for the states.
• Provide schooling and education
• Provide protection (police)
• Provide safety (fire departments)
• Give a driver’s license
• Approve zoning and land use
60. What is the purpose of the 10th Amendment?
• (It states that the) powers not given to the
federal government belong to the states
or to the people.
61. Who is the governor of your state now? *
• Answers will vary. [District of Columbia
residents should answer that D.C. does not
have a governor.]
62. What is the capital of your state?
• Answers will vary. [District of Columbia
residents should answer that D.C. is not a
state and does not have a capital. Residents of
U.S. territories should name the capital of the
territory.]
C: Rights and Responsibilities

63. There are four amendments to the
U.S. Constitution about who can vote.
Describe one of them.
• Citizens eighteen (18) and older (can vote).
• You don’t have to pay (a poll tax) to vote.
• Any citizen can vote. (Women and men can vote.)
• A male citizen of any race (can vote).
64. Who can vote in federal elections,
run for federal office, and serve on
a jury in the United States?
• Citizens
• Citizens of the United States
• U.S. citizens
65. What are three rights of everyone
living in the United States?
• Freedom of expression
• Freedom of speech
• Freedom of assembly
• Freedom to petition the government
• Freedom of religion
• The right to bear arms
66. What do we show loyalty to when we
say the Pledge of Allegiance?*
• The United States
• The flag
67. Name two promises that new citizens
make in the Oath of Allegiance.
• Give up loyalty to other countries
• Defend the (U.S.) Constitution
• Obey the laws of the United States
• Serve in the military (if needed)
• Serve (help, do important work for)
the nation (if needed)
• Be loyal to the United States

81

128 CIVICS TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
68. How can people become United States citizens?
• Be born in the United States, under the
conditions set by the 14th Ammendment.
• Naturalize
• Derive citizenship (under the conditions
set by Congress)

72. It is important for all men age 18 through
25 to register for the Selective Service.
Name one reason why.
• Required by law
• Civic duty
• Makes the draft fair, if needed

69. What are two examples of civic participation
in the United States?
• Vote
• Run for office
• Join a political party
• Help with a campaign
• Join a civic group
• Join a community group
• Give an elected official your opinion (on an issue)
• Contact elected officials
• Support or oppose an issue or policy
• Write to a newspaper

AMERICAN HISTORY
A: Colonial Period and Independence

70. What is one way Americans can
serve their country?
• Vote
• Pay taxes
• Obey the law
• Serve in the military
• Run for office
• Work for local, state, or federal government
71. Why is it important to pay federal taxes?
• Required by law
• All people pay to fund the federal government
• Required by the (U.S.) Constitution (16th
Amendment)
• Civic duty

82

73. The colonists came to America for
many reasons. Name one.
• Freedom
• Political liberty
• Religious freedom
• Economic opportunity
• Escape persecution
74. Who lived in America before
the Europeans arrived?*
• American Indians
• Native Americans
75. What group of people was taken
and sold as slaves?
• Africans
• People from Africa
76. What war did the Americans fight to
win independence from Britain?
• American Revolution
• The (American) Revolutionary War
• War for (American) Independence

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

INDEX
77. Name one reason why the Americans
declared independence from Britain.
• High taxes
• Taxation without representation
• British soldiers stayed in Americans’ houses
(boarding, quartering)
• They did not have self-government
• Boston Massacre
• Boston Tea Party (Tea Act)
• Stamp Act
• Sugar Act
• Townshend Acts
• Intolerable (Coercive) Acts
78. Who wrote the Declaration of Independence?*
• (Thomas) Jefferson
79. When was the Declaration of
Independence adopted?
• July 4, 1776
80. The American Revolution had many
important events. Name one.
• (Battle of) Bunker Hill
• Declaration of Independence
• Washington Crossing the Delaware
(Battle of Trenton)
• (Battle of) Saratoga
• Valley Forge (Encampment)
• (Battle of) Yorktown
• (British surrender at Yorktown)

81. There were 13 original states.
Name five.
• New Hampshire
• Massachusetts
• Rhode Island
• Connecticut
• New York
• New Jersey
• Pennsylvania
• Delaware
• Maryland
• Virginia
• North Carolina
• South Carolina
• Georgia
82. What founding document was written in 1787?
• (U.S.) Constitution
83. The Federalist Papers supported the passage of
the U.S. Constitution. Name one of the writers.
• (James) Madison
• (Alexander) Hamilton
• (John) Jay
• Publius
84. Why were the Federalist Papers important?
• They helped people understand the (U.S.)
Constitution.
• They supported passing the (U.S.)
Constitution.
85. Benjamin Franklin is famous for many things.
Name one.
• Founded the first free public libraries
• First Postmaster General of the United States
• Helped write the Declaration of Independence
• Inventor
• U.S. diplomat
83

128 CIVICS TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
86. George Washington is famous for many things.
Name one.*
• “Father of Our Country”
• First president of the United States
• General of the Continental Army
• President of the Constitutional Convention

91. Name one war fought by the United States
in the 1800s.
• War of 1812
• Mexican-American War
• Civil War
• Spanish-American War

87. Thomas Jefferson is famous for many things.
Name one.
• Writer of the Declaration of Independence
• Third president of the United States
• Doubled the size of the United States
(Louisiana Purchase)
• First Secretary of State
• Founded the University of Virginia
• Writer of the Virginia Statute on
Religious Freedom

92. Name the U.S. war between
the North and the South.
• The Civil War

88. James Madison is famous for many things.
Name one.
• “Father of the Constitution”
• Fourth president of the United States
• President during the War of 1812
• One of the writers of the Federalist Papers
89. Alexander Hamilton is famous for many things.
Name one.
• First Secretary of the Treasury
• One of the writers of the Federalist Papers
• Helped establish the First Bank of the United
States
• Aide to General George Washington
• Member of the Continental Congress
B: 1800s
90. What territory did the United States
buy from France in 1803?
• Louisiana Territory
• Louisiana
84

93. The Civil War had many important events. Name one.
• (Battle of) Fort Sumter
• Emancipation Proclamation
• (Battle of) Vicksburg
• (Battle of) Gettysburg
• Sherman’s March
• (Surrender at) Appomattox
• (Battle of) Antietam/Sharpsburg
• Lincoln was assassinated.
94. Abraham Lincoln is famous for many things.
Name one.*
• Freed the slaves (Emancipation Proclamation)
• Saved (or preserved) the Union
• Led the United States during the Civil War
• 16th president of the United States
• Delivered the Gettysburg Address
95. What did the Emancipation Proclamation do?
• Freed the slaves
• Freed slaves in the Confederacy
• Freed slaves in the Confederate states
• Freed slaves in most Southern states
96. What U.S. war ended slavery?
• The Civil War

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

INDEX
97. What amendment says all persons born or
naturalized in the United States, and subject
to the jurisdiction thereof, are U.S. citizens?
• 14th Amendment
98. When did all men get the right to vote?
• After the Civil War
• During Reconstruction
• (With the) 15th Amendment
• 1870
99. Name one leader of the women’s rights
movement in the 1800s.
• Susan B. Anthony
• Elizabeth Cady Stanton
• Sojourner Truth
• Harriet Tubman
• Lucretia Mott
• Lucy Stone
C: Recent American History and Other
Important Historical Information
100. Name one war fought by the United States
in the 1900s.
• World War I
• World War II
• Korean War
• Vietnam War
• (Persian) Gulf War
101. Why did the United States enter World War I?
• Because Germany attacked U.S. (civilian) ships
• To support the Allied Powers
(England, France, Italy, and Russia)
• To oppose the Central Powers
(Germany, Austria-Hungary,
the Ottoman Empire, and Bulgaria)

102. When did all women get the right to vote?
• 1920
• After World War I
• (With the) 19th Amendment
103. What was the Great Depression?
• Longest economic recession in modern history
104. When did the Great Depression start?
• The Great Crash (1929)
• Stock market crash of 1929
105. Who was president during the Great
Depression and World War II?
• (Franklin) Roosevelt
106. Why did the United States enter World War II?
• (Bombing of) Pearl Harbor
• Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor
• To support the Allied Powers
(England, France, and Russia)
• To oppose the Axis Powers
(Germany, Italy, and Japan)
107. Dwight Eisenhower is famous for
many things. Name one.
• General during World War II
• President at the end of (during) the Korean War
• 34th president of the United States
• Signed the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1956
(Created the Interstate System)
108. Who was the United States’ main rival
during the Cold War?
• Soviet Union
• USSR
• Russia

85

128 CIVICS TEST QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
109. During the Cold War, what was one
main concern of the United States?
• Communism
• Nuclear war
110. Why did the United States enter
the Korean War?
• To stop the spread of communism
111. Why did the United States enter the Vietnam War?
• To stop the spread of communism
112. What did the civil rights movement do?
• Fought to end racial discrimination
113. Martin Luther King, Jr. is famous
for many things. Name one.*
• Fought for civil rights
• Worked for equality for all Americans
• Worked to ensure that people would “not be
judged by the color of their skin, but by the
content of their character”
114. Why did the United States enter the
Persian Gulf War?
• To force the Iraqi military from Kuwait
115. What major event happened on September
11, 2001 in the United States? *
• Terrorists attacked the United States
• Terrorists took over two planes and crashed them
into the World Trade Center in New York City
• Terrorists took over a plane and crashed into
the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia
• Terrorists took over a plane originally aimed
at Washington, D.C., and crashed in a field in
Pennsylvania

86

116. Name one U.S. military conflict after the September 11, 2001 attacks.
• (Global) War on Terror
• War in Afghanistan
• War in Iraq
117. Name one American Indian
tribe in the United States.
• Apache
• Blackfeet
• Cayuga
• Cherokee
• Cheyenne
• Chippewa
• Choctaw
• Creek
• Crow
• Hopi
• Huron
• Inupiat
• Lakota
• Mohawk
• Mohegan
• Navajo
• Oneida
• Onondaga
• Pueblo
• Seminole
• Seneca
• Shawnee
• Sioux
• Teton
• Tuscarora
For a complete list of tribes, please visit bia.gov.

ONE NATION, ONE PEOPLE: THE USCIS CIVICS TEST TEXTBOOK

INDEX
118. Name one example of an American innovation.
• Light bulb
• Automobile (cars, internal combustion engine)
• Skyscrapers
• Airplane
• Assembly line
• Landing on the moon
• Integrated circuit (IC)
SYMBOLS AND HOLIDAYS
A: Symbols
119. What is the capital of the United States?
• Washington, D.C.
120. Where is the Statue of Liberty?
• New York (Harbor)
• Liberty Island [Also acceptable are
New Jersey, near New York City, and
on the Hudson (River).]
121. Why does the flag have 13 stripes? *
• (Because there were) 13 original colonies
• (Because the stripes) represent the original
colonies
122. Why does the flag have 50 stars?
• (Because there is) one star for each state
• (Because) each star represents a state
• (Because there are) 50 states

B: Holidays
125. What is Independence Day?
• A holiday to celebrate U.S. independence
(from Britain)
• The country’s birthday
126. Name three national U.S. holidays. *
• New Year’s Day
• Martin Luther King, Jr. Day
• Presidents Day (Washington’s Birthday)
• Memorial Day
• Juneteenth
• Independence Day
• Labor Day
• Columbus Day
• Veterans Day
• Thanksgiving Day
• Christmas Day
127. What is Memorial Day?
• A holiday to honor soldiers who died in military service
128. What is Veterans Day?
• A holiday to honor people in the (U.S.) military
• A holiday to honor people who have served
(in the U.S. military)

123. What is the name of the national anthem?
• The Star-Spangled Banner
124. The Nation’s first motto was “E Pluribus Unum.” What does that mean?
• Out of many, one
• We all become one

87

MD-1175
One Nation, One People:
The USCIS 2025 Civics Test
Study Guide

