Contents
Future Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Publication 590-A

What’s New for 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Contributions
to Individual
Retirement
Arrangements
(IRAs)

What’s New for 2026 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

For use in preparing

2025 Returns

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Chapter 1. Traditional IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Who Can Open a Traditional IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
When Can a Traditional IRA Be Opened? . . . . . . . 7
How Can a Traditional IRA Be Opened? . . . . . . . . 7
How Much Can Be Contributed? . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
When Can Contributions Be Made? . . . . . . . . . . 10
How Much Can You Deduct? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
What if You Inherit an IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Can You Move Retirement Plan Assets? . . . . . . . 21
When Can You Withdraw or Use Assets? . . . . . . 31
What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional
Taxes? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Chapter 2. Roth IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
What Is a Roth IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
When Can a Roth IRA Be Opened? . . . . . . . . . . 39
Can You Contribute to a Roth IRA? . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Can You Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA? . . . . . . 44
Chapter 3. Retirement Savings Contributions
Credit (Saver's Credit) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Appendices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 590-A, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub590A.

What’s New for 2025

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:

• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español) • IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Jan 15, 2026

IRA contribution limit for 2025. For 2025, the IRA contribution limit remains $7,000 ($8,000 for individuals age
50 or older).
Trump account and new Form 4547. Recent legislation
allows parents, guardians, and other authorized individuals to elect to establish a new type of individual retirement
account, called a Trump account, for the exclusive benefit
of certain children. If the child was born after 2024 and before 2029, is a U.S. citizen, and meets certain other requirements, the authorized individual may also elect to receive a $1,000 pilot program contribution to the child’s
Trump account. Both elections can be made on Form

Publication 590-A (2025) Catalog Number 66302J
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

4547, which can be filed at the same time as the authorized individual’s 2025 income tax return. For more information on Trump accounts, and to learn how to make
these elections, see Form 4547 and its instructions.
Modified AGI limit for traditional IRA contributions.
For 2025, if you are covered by a retirement plan at work,
your deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA is reduced (phased out) if your modified AGI is:

• More than $126,000 but less than $146,000 for a married couple filing a joint return or a qualifying surviving
spouse,

• More than $79,000 but less than $89,000 for a single
individual or head of household, or

• Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a separate return.

Modified AGI limit for certain married individuals.
If you are married and your spouse is covered by a retirement plan at work and you aren’t, and you live with your
spouse or file a joint return, your deduction is phased out if
your modified AGI is more than $236,000 (up from
$230,000 for 2024) but less than $246,000 (up from
$240,000 for 2024). If your modified AGI is $246,000 or
more, you can’t take a deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA.
Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions. For
2025, your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced (phased
out) in the following situations.

• Your filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying

surviving spouse and your modified AGI is at least
$236,000. You can’t make a Roth IRA contribution if
your modified AGI is $246,000 or more.

• Your filing status is single, head of household, or mar-

ried filing separately and you didn’t live with your
spouse at any time in 2025 and your modified AGI is at
least $150,000. You can’t make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $165,000 or more.

• Your filing status is married filing separately, you lived

with your spouse at any time during the year, and your
modified AGI is more than zero. You can’t make a Roth
IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $10,000 or
more.

What’s New for 2026
IRA contribution limit increased for 2026. Beginning
in 2026, the IRA contribution limit is increased to $7,500
($8,600 for individuals age 50 or older) from $7,000
($8,000 for individuals age 50 or older).
Modified AGI limit for traditional IRA contributions increased. For 2026, if you are covered by a retirement
plan at work, your deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA is reduced (phased out) if your modified AGI is:

• More than $129,000 but less than $149,000 for a married couple filing a joint return or a qualifying surviving
spouse,

2

• More than $81,000 but less than $91,000 for a single
individual or head of household, or

• Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a separate return.

Modified AGI limit for certain married individuals
increased. If you are married and your spouse is covered
by a retirement plan at work and you aren’t, and you live
with your spouse or file a joint return, your deduction is
phased out if your modified AGI is more than $242,000
(up from $236,000 for 2025) but less than $252,000 (up
from $246,000 for 2025). If your modified AGI is $252,000
or more, you can’t take a deduction for contributions to a
traditional IRA.
Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions increased. For 2026, your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced (phased out) in the following situations.

• Your filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying

surviving spouse and your modified AGI is at least
$242,000. You can’t make a Roth IRA contribution if
your modified AGI is $252,0000 or more.

• Your filing status is single, head of household, or mar-

ried filing separately and you didn’t live with your
spouse at any time in 2026 and your modified AGI is at
least $153,000. You can’t make a Roth IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $168,000 or more.

• Your filing status is married filing separately, you lived

with your spouse at any time during the year, and your
modified AGI is more than zero. You can’t make a Roth
IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $10,000 or
more.

Reminders
Qualified tuition program rollover to a Roth IRA. Beginning with distributions made after December 31, 2023,
a beneficiary of a section 529 qualified tuition program is
permitted to roll over a distribution from a section 529 account into a Roth IRA for the beneficiary if certain requirements are met. See Qualified tuition program rollover to a
Roth IRA, later.
Increase in required minimum distribution age. Individuals who reach age 72 after December 31, 2022, may
delay receiving their required minimum distributions
(RMDs) until April 1 of the year following the year in which
they turn age 73.
Qualified disaster tax relief. The special rules that provide for tax-favored withdrawals and repayments from certain qualified plans for taxpayers who suffered an economic loss as a result of a qualified disaster were made
permanent by the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022.
A qualified disaster is a major disaster that occurred on
or after January 26, 2021, and was declared by the President after December 27, 2020, under section 401 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Act. For
more information, see Disaster-Related Relief in Pub.
590-B,
Distributions
from
Individual
Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs).
Publication 590-A (2025)

Repayment of certain early distributions. Contributions made to the eligible retirement plan as a repayment
of emergency personal expense distributions, domestic
abuse distributions, and terminal illness distributions may
be eligible for tax-free rollover treatment. See Pub. 590-B
for more information.
Certain corrective distributions not subject to 10%
additional tax. Beginning on December 29, 2022, the
10% additional tax on early distributions will not apply to a
corrective IRA distribution, which consists of an excess
contribution (a contribution greater than the IRA contribution limit) and any earnings allocable to the excess contribution, as long as the corrective distribution is made on or
before the due date (including extensions) of the income
tax return.
Divorce or separation instruments after 2018.
Amounts paid as alimony or separate maintenance payments under a divorce or separation instrument executed
after 2018 won't be deductible by the payer. Such
amounts also won't be includible in the income of the recipient. The same is true of alimony paid under a divorce
or separation instrument executed before 2019 and modified after 2018, if the modification expressly states that the
alimony isn't deductible to the payer or includible in the income of the recipient. For more information, see Pub. 504.
IRA interest. Although interest earned from your IRA is
generally not taxed in the year earned, it isn’t tax-exempt
interest. Tax on your traditional IRA is generally deferred
until you take a distribution. Don’t report this interest on
your return as tax-exempt interest. For more information
on tax-exempt interest, see the instructions for your tax return.
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
This publication discusses contributions to individual retirement arrangements (IRAs). An IRA is a personal savings plan that gives you tax advantages for setting aside
money for retirement. For information about distributions
(including rollovers) from an IRA, see Pub. 590-B.
What are some tax advantages of an IRA? Two tax advantages of an IRA are that:

• Contributions you make to an IRA may be fully or partially deductible, depending on which type of IRA you
have and on your circumstances; and

• Generally, amounts in your IRA (including earnings

and gains) aren’t taxed until distributed. In some cases, amounts aren’t taxed at all if distributed according
to the rules.

Publication 590-A (2025)

What's in this publication? This publication discusses
contributions to traditional and Roth IRAs. It explains the
rules for:

• Setting up an IRA,
• Contributing to an IRA,
• Transferring money or property to and from an IRA,
and

• Taking a credit for contributions to an IRA.
It also explains the penalties and additional taxes that
apply when the rules aren’t followed. To assist you in complying with the tax rules for IRAs, this publication contains
worksheets and sample forms, which can be found
throughout the publication and in the appendices at the
end of the publication.
How to use this publication. The rules that you must
follow depend on which type of IRA you have. Use Table
I-1 to help you determine which parts of this publication to
read. Also use Table I-1 if you were referred to this publication from instructions to a form.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publications
505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
505

3

590-B Distributions from Individual Retirement
Arrangements (IRAs)
560 Retirement Plans for Small Business (SEP,
SIMPLE, and Qualified Plans)
571 Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plans (403(b) Plans)
575 Pension and Annuity Income
939 General Rule for Pensions and Annuities
590-B

5305-SIMPLE Savings Incentive Match Plan for
Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE)—for
Use With a Designated Financial Institution
5305-SIMPLE

560

571

575

5329 Additional Taxes on Qualified Plans (Including
IRAs) and Other Tax-Favored Accounts
5329

5498 IRA Contribution Information
5498

939

Forms (and Instructions)
W-4P Withholding Certificate for Pension or Annuity
Payments
1099-R Distributions From Pensions, Annuities,
Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs,
Insurance Contracts, etc.
5304-SIMPLE Savings Incentive Match Plan for
Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE)—Not
for Use With a Designated Financial Institution
5305-S SIMPLE Individual Retirement Trust Account
5305-SA SIMPLE Individual Retirement Custodial
Account
W-4P

1099-R

5304-SIMPLE

8606 Nondeductible IRAs
8606

8815 Exclusion of Interest From Series EE and I U.S.
Savings Bonds Issued After 1989
8815

8839 Qualified Adoption Expenses
8839

8880 Credit for Qualified Retirement Savings
Contributions
8880

8915-F Qualified Disaster Retirement Plan
Distributions and Repayments
8915-F

5305-S

5305-SA

See How To Get Tax Help near the end of this publication
for information about getting these publications and forms.

Table I-1. Using This Publication
IF you need information on...

THEN see...

traditional IRAs (not including traditional SIMPLE IRAs)

chapter 1.

Roth IRAs (not including Roth SIMPLE IRAs)

chapter 2, and parts of
chapter 1.

the credit for qualified retirement savings contributions
(saver's credit)

chapter 3.

how to keep a record of your contributions to, and
distributions from, your traditional IRA(s)

Appendix A.

SEP IRAs, SIMPLE IRAs, and 401(k) plans

Pub. 560.

Coverdell education savings accounts (ESAs) (formerly
called education IRAs)

Pub. 970.

IF for 2025, you:
• received social security benefits,
• had taxable compensation,
• contributed to a traditional IRA, and
• you or your spouse was covered by an employer
retirement plan,
and you want to...

THEN see...

first figure your modified adjusted gross income (AGI)

Appendix B, Worksheet 1.

then figure how much of your traditional IRA contribution
you can deduct

Appendix B, Worksheet 2.

and finally figure how much of your social security is
taxable

Appendix B, Worksheet 3.

4

Publication 590-A (2025)

Table I-2. How Are a Traditional IRA and a Roth IRA Different?
This table shows the differences between traditional IRAs (not including traditional SIMPLE IRAs) and Roth IRAs (not
including Roth SIMPLE IRAs). Answers in the middle column apply to traditional IRAs. Answers in the right column apply
to Roth IRAs.
Question

Answer
Traditional IRA?

Roth IRA?

Is there an age limit on when I can open
and contribute to a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

No. For tax years after 2019, you are
able to contribute to your IRA even if
you have reached age 701/2 or older.
See Who Can Open a Traditional IRA?
in chapter 1.

No. You can be any age. See Can You
Contribute to a Roth IRA? in chapter 2.

If I earned more than $7,000 in 2025
($8,000 if I was age 50 or older by the
end of 2025), is there a limit on how
much I can contribute to a . . . . . . . . . . .

Yes. For 2025, you can contribute to a
traditional IRA up to:
• $7,000, or
• $8,000 if you were age 50 or older
by the end of 2025.
There is no upper limit on how much
you can earn and still contribute. See
How Much Can Be Contributed? in
chapter 1.

Yes. For 2025, you may be able to
contribute to a Roth IRA up to:
• $7,000, or
• $8,000 if you were age 50 or older
by the end of 2025,
but the amount you can contribute may
be less than that depending on your
income, your filing status, and if you
contribute to another IRA. See How
Much Can Be Contributed? and Table
2-1 in chapter 2.

Can I deduct contributions to a . . . . . . .

Yes. You may be able to deduct your
contributions to a traditional IRA
depending on your income, your filing
status, whether you are covered by a
retirement plan at work, and whether
you receive social security benefits.
See How Much Can You Deduct? in
chapter 1.

No. You can never deduct contributions
to a Roth IRA. See What Is a Roth IRA?
in chapter 2.

Do I have to file a form just because I
contribute to a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Not unless you make nondeductible
contributions to your traditional IRA. In
that case, you must file Form 8606. See
Nondeductible Contributions in
chapter 1.

No. You don’t have to file a form if you
contribute to a Roth IRA. See
Contributions not reported in chapter 2.

Publication 590-A (2025)

5

Roth IRAs are discussed in chapter 2. SIMPLE IRAs
are discussed in Pub. 560. For a traditional IRA that receives employer contributions from a SEP arrangement,
see Simplified Employee Pension (SEP), later.

1.
Traditional IRAs

Who Can Open a Traditional
IRA?

Reminders
Types of IRAs. An IRA can be either a traditional IRA or
a Roth IRA. In general, individuals may make their own
contributions to their traditional IRAs or Roth IRAs. In addition, certain employers have arrangements under which
the employer may contribute to IRAs of their employees.
Under a SEP arrangement, an employer contributes to
traditional IRAs (sometimes referred to as traditional SEP
IRAs) or Roth IRAs (sometimes referred to as Roth SEP
IRAs) of its employees. Individuals may separately make
their own contributions to the same IRAs to which their
employer contributes under a SEP arrangement.
Under a SIMPLE IRA plan, an employer contributes
salary reduction contributions (at the election of the employee), matching contributions and/or nonelective contributions to traditional IRAs (sometimes referred to as traditional SIMPLE IRAs) or Roth IRAs (sometimes referred to
as Roth SIMPLE IRAs) of its employees. However, a SIMPLE IRA (whether a traditional SIMPLE IRA or a Roth
SIMPLE IRA) is subject to certain restrictions that do not
generally apply to other traditional IRAs or Roth IRAs. For
example, an individual cannot make their own contributions to a SIMPLE IRA. In addition, there are various restrictions related to distributions and contributions during
the initial 2 years of participation in the SIMPLE IRA plan.
References in this publication to traditional IRAs generally include traditional SEP IRAs but do not include traditional SIMPLE IRAs, unless otherwise stated. Likewise,
references to Roth IRAs generally include Roth SEP IRAs
but do not include Roth SIMPLE IRAs, unless otherwise
stated.

Introduction
This chapter discusses the original IRA. In this publication, the original IRA (sometimes called an ordinary or regular IRA) is referred to as a “traditional IRA.” For purposes
of this publication, a traditional IRA is any IRA that isn’t a
Roth IRA or a SIMPLE IRA. Traditional IRAs include traditional IRAs that receive employer contributions from SEP
arrangements. The following are two advantages of a traditional IRA.

• You may be able to deduct some or all of your contributions to it, depending on your circumstances.

• Generally, amounts in your IRA, including earnings
and gains, aren’t taxed until they are distributed.

You can open and make contributions to a traditional IRA if
you (or, if you file a joint return, your spouse) received taxable compensation during the year.
You can have a traditional IRA whether or not you are
covered by any other retirement plan. However, you may
not be able to deduct all of your contributions if you or your
spouse is covered by an employer retirement plan. See
How Much Can You Deduct, later.
For tax years beginning after December 31, 2019,

TIP the rule that you are not able to make contribu-

tions to your traditional IRA for the year in which
you reach age 70½ and all later years has been repealed.

Both spouses have compensation. If both you and
your spouse have compensation, each of you can open an
IRA. You can’t both participate in the same IRA. If you file
a joint return, only one of you needs to have compensation.

What Is Compensation?
Generally, compensation is what you earn from working.
For a summary of what compensation does and doesn’t
include, see Table 1-1. Compensation includes all of the
items discussed next (even if you have more than one
type).
Wages, salaries, etc. Wages, salaries, tips, professional
fees, bonuses, and other amounts you receive for providing personal services are compensation. The IRS treats
as compensation any amount properly shown in box 1
(Wages, tips, other compensation) of Form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement, provided that amount is reduced by
any amount properly shown in box 11 (Nonqualified
plans). A scholarship or fellowship is generally taxable
compensation only if it is in box 1 of your Form W-2. However, for tax years beginning after 2019, certain non-tuition
fellowship and stipend payments not reported to you on
Form W-2 are treated as taxable compensation for IRA
purposes. These amounts include taxable non-tuition fellowship and stipend payments made to aid you in the pursuit of graduate or postdoctoral study and included in your
gross income under the rules discussed in chapter 1 of
Pub. 970, Tax Benefits for Education.
Commissions. An amount you receive that is a percentage of profits or sales price is compensation.
Self-employment income. If you are self-employed (a
sole proprietor or a partner), compensation is the net

6

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

earnings from your trade or business (provided your personal services are a material income-producing factor) reduced by the total of:

What Isn’t Compensation?
Compensation doesn’t include any of the following items.

• The deduction for contributions made on your behalf

• Earnings and profits from property, such as rental in-

• The deduction allowed for the deductible part of your

• Pension or annuity income.
• Deferred compensation received (compensation pay-

to retirement plans, and

self-employment taxes.

Compensation includes earnings from self-employment
even if they aren’t subject to self-employment tax because
of your religious beliefs.

come, interest income, and dividend income.

ments postponed from a past year).

• Income from a partnership for which you don’t provide
services that are a material income-producing factor.

Self-employment loss. If you have a net loss from
self-employment, don’t subtract the loss from your salaries
or wages when figuring your total compensation.

• Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) payments re-

Alimony and separate maintenance. For IRA purposes, compensation includes any taxable alimony and separate maintenance payments you receive under a decree
of divorce or separate maintenance but only with respect
to divorce or separation instruments executed on or before
December 31, 2018, that have not been modified to exclude such amounts.

from income, such as foreign earned income and
housing costs.

ported on Schedule SE (Form 1040), line 1b.

• Any amounts (other than combat pay) you exclude

When Can a Traditional IRA Be
Opened?

Nontaxable combat pay. If you were a member of the
U.S. Armed Forces, compensation includes any nontaxable combat pay you received. This amount should be reported in box 12 of your 2025 Form W-2 with code Q.

You can open a traditional IRA at any time. However, the
time for making contributions for any year is limited. See
When Can Contributions Be Made, later.

Graduate or postdoctoral study. A scholarship or fellowship is generally taxable compensation only if it is in
box 1 of your Form W-2. However, for tax years beginning
after 2019, certain non-tuition fellowship and stipend payments not reported to you on Form W-2 are treated as taxable compensation for IRA purposes. These amounts include taxable non-tuition fellowship and stipend payments
made to aid you in the pursuit of graduate or postdoctoral
study and included in your gross income under the rules
discussed in chapter 1 of Pub. 970.

How Can a Traditional IRA Be
Opened?

Table 1-1. Compensation for Purposes
of an IRA
Includes...

wages, salaries, etc.

commissions.

self-employment income.
taxable alimony and separate
maintenance.

nontaxable combat pay.

Doesn’t include...
earnings and profits from
property.
interest and
dividend income.

Kinds of traditional IRAs. Your traditional IRA can be an
individual retirement account or annuity. It can be an employer or employee association trust account. A traditional
IRA can also be used to accept employer contributions
under a SEP arrangement (sometimes referred to as a traditional SEP IRA).

Individual Retirement Account

pension or annuity
income.
deferred compensation.

income from certain
partnerships.

An individual retirement account is a trust or custodial account set up in the United States for the exclusive benefit
of you or your beneficiaries. The account is created by a
written document. The document must show that the account meets all of the following requirements.

• The trustee or custodian must be a bank, a federally

any amounts you exclude
from income.

insured credit union, a savings and loan association,
or an entity approved by the IRS to act as trustee or
custodian.

• The trustee or custodian generally can’t accept contri-

taxable non-tuition fellowship and
stipend payments.

Publication 590-A (2025)

You can open different kinds of IRAs with a variety of organizations. You can open an IRA at a bank or other financial institution or with a mutual fund or life insurance company. You can also open an IRA through your stockbroker.
Any IRA must meet Internal Revenue Code requirements.
The requirements for the various arrangements are discussed below.

butions of more than the deductible amount for the

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

7

year. However, rollover contributions and employer
contributions to a traditional SEP IRA can be more
than this amount.

• Contributions, except for rollover contributions, must
be in cash. See Rollovers, later.

• You must have a nonforfeitable right to the amount at
all times.

• Money in your account can’t be used to buy a life insurance policy.

• You can’t transfer the bonds.
If you cash (redeem) the bonds before the year in which
you reach age 591/2, you may be subject to a 10% additional tax. See Pub. 590-B for more information about the
age 591/2 rule for early distributions and other distribution
rules. You can roll over redemption proceeds into IRAs.

SIMPLE IRA Plans and SIMPLE IRAs

Individual Retirement Annuity

A SIMPLE IRA plan is a tax-favored retirement plan that
certain small employers (including self-employed employees) can set up for the benefit of their employees. Contributions to the employees’ SIMPLE IRA are made by the
employers and are made up of salary reduction contributions and employer contributions which are either matching contributions or nonelective contributions. A SIMPLE
IRA can be either a traditional SIMPLE IRA or a Roth SIMPLE IRA but are subject to different rules than traditional
or Roth IRAs. See Pub. 560 for more information about
SIMPLE IRA plans and SIMPLE IRAs.

You can open an individual retirement annuity by purchasing an annuity contract or an endowment contract from a
life insurance company.

Simplified Employee Pension (SEP)
Arrangements and SIMPLE IRAs

• Assets in your account can’t be combined with other
property, except in a common trust fund or common
investment fund.

• You must start receiving distributions by April 1 of the

year following the year in which you reach age 73. See
Pub. 590-B for more information about RMDs and
other distribution rules.

An individual retirement annuity must be issued in your
name as the owner, and either you or your beneficiaries
who survive you are the only ones who can receive the
benefits or payments.
An individual retirement annuity must meet all the following requirements.

• Your entire interest in the contract must be nonforfeitable.

• The contract must provide that you can’t transfer any
portion of it to any person other than the issuer.

• There must be flexible premiums so that if your compensation changes, your payment can also change.
This provision applies to contracts issued after November 6, 1978.

• The contract must provide that contributions can’t be

more than the deductible amount for an IRA for the
year, and that you must use any refunded premiums to
pay for future premiums or to buy more benefits before
the end of the calendar year after the year in which
you receive the refund.

• Distributions must begin by April 1 of the year follow-

ing the year in which you reach age 73. See Pub.
590-B for more information about RMDs and other distribution rules.

Individual Retirement Bonds
The sale of individual retirement bonds issued by the federal government was suspended after April 30, 1982. The
bonds have the following features.

• They stop earning interest when you reach age 701/2.

If you die, interest will stop 5 years after your death, or
on the date you would have reached age 701/2,
whichever is earlier.

8

Chapter 1

A SEP arrangement is a written plan that allows an employer to make contributions to an employee’s traditional
SEP IRA or Roth SEP IRA. Employer contributions to SEP
IRAs are subject to different limits than individual contributions to traditional and Roth IRAs. Distributions from SEP
IRAs are subject to traditional and Roth IRA rules. See
Pub. 560 for more information about SEP arrangements
and SIMPLE IRAs.

Employer and Employee Association
Trust Accounts
Your employer or your labor union or other employee association can set up a trust to provide individual retirement
accounts for employees or members, provided certain requirements are met (such as separate accounting). The
requirements for individual retirement accounts apply to
these traditional and Roth IRAs.

Required Disclosures
The trustee or issuer (sometimes called the sponsor) of
your traditional IRA must generally give you a disclosure
statement at least 7 days before you open your IRA. However, the sponsor doesn’t have to give you the statement
until the date you open (or purchase, if earlier) your IRA,
provided you are given at least 7 days from that date to revoke the IRA.
The disclosure statement must explain certain items in
plain language. For example, the statement should explain
when and how you can revoke the IRA, and include the
name, address, and telephone number of the person to
receive the notice of cancellation. This explanation must
appear at the beginning of the disclosure statement.
Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

If you revoke your IRA within the revocation period, the
sponsor must return to you the entire amount you paid.
The sponsor must report on the appropriate IRS forms
both your contribution to the IRA (unless it was made by a
trustee-to-trustee transfer) and the amount returned to
you. These requirements apply to all sponsors.

• Naval Reserve,
• Marine Corps Reserve,
• Air National Guard of the United States,
• Air Force Reserve,
• Coast Guard Reserve, or
• Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service.

How Much Can Be
Contributed?

Figuring your IRA deduction. The repayment of
qualified reservist distributions doesn’t affect the amount
you can deduct as an IRA contribution.

There are limits and other rules that affect the amount that
can be contributed to a traditional IRA. These limits and
rules are explained below.

Reporting the repayment. If you repay a qualified reservist distribution, include the amount of the repayment
with nondeductible contributions on line 1 of Form 8606.

Community property laws. Except as discussed later
under Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA Limit, each
spouse figures their limit separately, using their own compensation. This is the rule even in states with community
property laws.

Example. In 2025, your IRA contribution limit is
$7,000. However, because of your filing status and AGI,
the limit on the amount you can deduct is $3,500. You can
make a nondeductible contribution of $3,500 ($7,000 –
$3,500). In an earlier year, you received a $3,000 qualified
reservist distribution, which you would like to repay this
year.
For 2025, you can contribute a total of $10,000 to your
IRA. This is made up of the maximum deductible contribution of $3,500; a nondeductible contribution of $3,500;
and a $3,000 qualified reservist repayment. You contribute
the maximum allowable for the year. Because you are
making a nondeductible contribution ($3,500) and a qualified reservist repayment ($3,000), you must file Form
8606 with your return and include $6,500 ($3,500 +
$3,000) on line 1 of Form 8606. The qualified reservist repayment isn’t deductible.

Brokers' commissions. Brokers' commissions paid in
connection with your traditional IRA are subject to the contribution limit. For information about whether you can deduct brokers' commissions, see Brokers' commissions,
later, under How Much Can You Deduct.
Trustees' fees. Trustees' administrative fees aren’t subject to the contribution limit. For information about whether
you can deduct trustees' fees, see Trustees' fees, later,
under How Much Can You Deduct.
Qualified reservist repayments. If you were a member
of a reserve component and you were ordered or called to
active duty after September 11, 2001, you may be able to
contribute (repay) to an IRA amounts equal to any qualified reservist distributions (defined under Early Distributions in Pub. 590-B) you received. You can make these repayment contributions even if they would cause your total
contributions to the IRA to be more than the general limit
on contributions. To be eligible to make these repayment
contributions, you must have received a qualified reservist
distribution from an IRA or from a section 401(k) or 403(b)
plan or a similar arrangement. See Early Distributions in
Pub. 590-B for more information on qualified reservist distributions.
Limit. Your qualified reservist repayments can’t be
more than your qualified reservist distributions.
When repayment contributions can be made. You
can’t make these repayment contributions later than the
date that is 2 years after your active duty period ends.
No deduction. You can’t deduct qualified reservist repayments.
Reserve component. The term “reserve component”
means the:

• Army National Guard of the United States,
• Army Reserve,
Publication 590-A (2025)

Contributions on your behalf to a traditional IRA
reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA.
CAUTION See chapter 2 for information about Roth IRAs.

!

General Limit
For 2025, the most that can be contributed to your traditional IRA is generally the smaller of the following
amounts.

• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older).
• Your taxable compensation (defined earlier) for the
year.

Note: This limit is reduced by any contributions to a
section 501(c)(18) plan (generally, a pension plan created
before June 25, 1959, that is funded entirely by employee
contributions).
This is the most that can be contributed regardless of
whether the contributions are to one or more traditional
IRAs or whether all or part of the contributions are nondeductible. (See Nondeductible Contributions, later.) Qualified reservist repayments don’t affect this limit.
Examples. Gina, who is 34 years old and single, earns
$24,000 in 2025. Her IRA contributions for 2025 are limited to $7,000.

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

9

Danny, an unmarried college student working part time,
earns $3,500 in 2025. His IRA contributions for 2025 are
limited to $3,500, the amount of his compensation.
More than one IRA. If you have more than one IRA, the
limit applies to the total contributions made on your behalf
to all your traditional IRAs for the year.
Annuity or endowment contracts. If you invest in an
annuity or endowment contract under an individual retirement annuity, no more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age
50 or older) can be contributed toward its cost for the tax
year, including the cost of life insurance coverage. If more
than this amount is contributed, the annuity or endowment
contract is disqualified.

Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA
Limit
For 2025, if you file a joint return and your taxable compensation is less than that of your spouse, the most that
can be contributed for the year to your IRA is the smaller
of the following two amounts.
1. $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older).
2. The total compensation includible in the gross income
of both you and your spouse for the year, reduced by
the following two amounts.
a. Your spouse's IRA contribution for the year to a
traditional IRA.
b. Any contributions for the year to a Roth IRA on behalf of your spouse.
This means that the total combined contributions that
can be made for the year to your IRA and your spouse's
IRA can be as much as $14,000 ($15,000 if only one of
you is age 50 or older, or $16,000 if both of you are age 50
or older).
Note: This traditional IRA limit is reduced by any contributions to a section 501(c)(18) plan (generally, a pension plan created before June 25, 1959, that is funded entirely by employee contributions).
Example. You are a full-time student with no taxable
compensation and marry during the year. Neither you nor
your spouse are at least age 50 by the end of 2025. Your
spouse has taxable compensation of $30,000. Your
spouse plans to contribute (and deduct) $7,000 to a traditional IRA. If you and your spouse file a joint return, you
and your spouse can each contribute $7,000 to a traditional IRA. Because you have no compensation, you can
add your spouse’s compensation, reduced by the amount
of your spouse’s IRA contribution ($30,000 – $7,000 =
$23,000), to your compensation (-0-) to figure your maximum contribution to a traditional IRA. In your case, $7,000
is your contribution limit, because $7,000 is less than
$23,000 (your compensation for purposes of figuring your
contribution limit).

10

Chapter 1

Filing Status
Generally, except as discussed earlier under Kay Bailey
Hutchison Spousal IRA Limit, your filing status has no effect on the amount of allowable contributions to your traditional IRA. However, if during the year either you or your
spouse was covered by a retirement plan at work, your deduction may be reduced or eliminated, depending on your
filing status and income. See How Much Can You Deduct,
later.
Example. You and your spouse are both age 53. You
both work and you both have a traditional IRA. You earned
$3,800 and your spouse earned $48,000 in 2025. Because of the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA limit rule,
even though you earned less than $8,000, you can contribute up to $8,000 to your IRA for 2025 if you file a joint
return. Your spouse can contribute up to $8,000 to their
IRA. If you file separate returns, the amount that can be
contributed to your IRA is limited by your earned income,
$3,800.

Less Than Maximum Contributions
If contributions to your traditional IRA for a year were less
than the limit, you can’t contribute more after the due date
of your return for that year to make up the difference.
Example. You are age 40 and earn $30,000 in 2025.
Although you can contribute up to $7,000 for 2025, you
contribute only $3,000. After April 15, 2026, you can’t
make up the difference between your actual contributions
for 2025 ($3,000) and your 2025 limit ($7,000). You can’t
contribute $4,000 more than the limit for any later year.

More Than Maximum Contributions
If contributions to your IRA for a year were more than the
limit, you can apply the excess contribution in one year to
a later year if the contributions for that later year are less
than the maximum allowed for that year. However, a penalty or additional tax may apply. See Excess Contributions, later, under What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional Taxes.

When Can Contributions Be
Made?
As soon as you open your traditional IRA, contributions
can be made to it through your chosen sponsor (trustee or
other administrator). Contributions must be in the form of
money (cash, check, or money order). Property can’t be
contributed.
Although property can’t be contributed, your IRA may
invest in certain property. For example, your IRA may purchase shares of stock. For other restrictions on the use of
funds in your IRA, see Prohibited Transactions, later in this
chapter. You may be able to transfer or roll over certain
Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

property from one retirement plan to another. See the discussion of rollovers and other transfers later in this chapter
under Can You Move Retirement Plan Assets.
You can make a contribution to your IRA by having

TIP your income tax refund (or a portion of your re-

fund), if any, paid directly to your traditional IRA or
Roth IRA. For details, see the instructions for your income
tax return or Form 8888, Allocation of Refund.

Contributions can be made to your traditional IRA for
each year that you receive compensation. For any year in
which you don’t work, contributions can’t be made to your
IRA unless you receive taxable alimony, nontaxable combat pay, or military differential pay, or file a joint return with
a spouse who has compensation. See Who Can Open a
Traditional IRA, earlier. Even if contributions can’t be made
for the current year, the amounts contributed for years in
which you did qualify can remain in your IRA. Contributions can resume for any years that you qualify.
Contributions must be made by due date. Contributions can be made to your traditional IRA for a year at any
time during the year or by the due date for filing your return
for that year, not including extensions. For most people,
this means that contributions for 2025 must be made by
April 15, 2026.
For tax years beginning after 2019, the rule that
TIP you are not able to make contributions to your traditional IRA for the year in which you reach age
70½ and all later years has been repealed.
Designating year for which contribution is made. If
an amount is contributed to your traditional IRA between
January 1 and April 15, you should tell the sponsor which
year (the current year or the previous year) the contribution is for. If you don’t tell the sponsor which year it is for,
the sponsor can assume, and report to the IRS, that the
contribution is for the current year (the year the sponsor
received it).
Filing before a contribution is made. You can file your
return claiming a traditional IRA contribution before the
contribution is actually made. Generally, the contribution
must be made by the due date of your return, not including
extensions.
Contributions not required. You don’t have to contribute to your traditional IRA for every tax year, even if you
can.

How Much Can You Deduct?
Generally, you can deduct the lesser of:

• The contributions to your traditional IRA for the year,
or

• The general limit (or the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal
IRA limit, if applicable) explained earlier under How
Much Can Be Contributed.

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

However, if you or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan, you may not be able to deduct this
amount. See Limit if Covered by Employer Plan, later.
You may be able to claim a credit for contributions

TIP to your traditional IRA. For more information, see
chapter 3.

Trustees' fees. Trustees' administrative fees that are billed separately and paid in connection with your traditional
IRA aren’t deductible as IRA contributions. You are also
not able to deduct these fees as an itemized deduction.
Brokers' commissions. These commissions are part of
your IRA contribution and, as such, are deductible subject
to the limits.
Full deduction. If neither you nor your spouse was covered for any part of the year by an employer retirement
plan, you can take a deduction for total contributions to
one or more of your traditional IRAs of up to the lesser of:

• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• 100% of your compensation.
This limit is reduced by any contributions made to a
section 501(c)(18) plan on your behalf.
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA. In the case of a
married couple with unequal compensation who file a joint
return, the deduction for contributions to the traditional
IRA of the spouse with less compensation is limited to the
lesser of:
1. $7,000 ($8,000 if the spouse with the lower compensation is age 50 or older), or
2. The total compensation includible in the gross income
of both spouses for the year reduced by the following
three amounts.
a. The IRA deduction for the year of the spouse with
the greater compensation.
b. Any designated nondeductible contribution for the
year made on behalf of the spouse with the
greater compensation.
c. Any contributions for the year to a Roth IRA on behalf of the spouse with the greater compensation.
This limit is reduced by any contributions to a section
501(c)(18) plan on behalf of the spouse with the lesser
compensation.
Note: If you were divorced or legally separated (and
didn’t remarry) before the end of the year, you can’t deduct any contributions to your spouse's IRA. After a divorce or legal separation, you can deduct only the contributions to your own IRA. Your deductions are subject to
the rules for single individuals.
Covered by an employer retirement plan. If you or
your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan
at any time during the year for which contributions were
made, your deduction may be further limited. This is
discussed later under Limit if Covered by Employer Plan.
Traditional IRAs

11

Limits on the amount you can deduct don’t affect the
amount that can be contributed.

Are You Covered by an Employer
Plan?
The Form W-2 you receive from your employer has a box
used to indicate whether you were covered for the year.
The “Retirement plan” box should be checked if you were
covered.
Reservists and volunteer firefighters should also see
Situations in Which You Aren’t Covered, later.
If you aren’t certain whether you were covered by your
employer's retirement plan, you should ask your employer.
Federal judges. For purposes of the IRA deduction, federal judges are covered by an employer plan.

For Which Year(s) Are You Covered?
Special rules apply to determine the tax years for which
you are covered by an employer plan. These rules differ
depending on whether the plan is a defined contribution
plan or a defined benefit plan.
Tax year. Your tax year is the annual accounting period
you use to keep records and report income and expenses
on your income tax return. For almost all people, the tax
year is the calendar year.
Defined contribution plan. Generally, you are covered
by a defined contribution plan for a tax year if amounts are
contributed or allocated to your account for the plan year
that ends with or within that tax year. However, also see
Situations in Which You Aren’t Covered, later.
A defined contribution plan is a plan that provides for a
separate account for each person covered by the plan. In
a defined contribution plan, the amount to be contributed
to each participant's account is spelled out in the plan.
The level of benefits actually provided to a participant depends on the total amount contributed to that participant's
account and any earnings and losses on those contributions. Types of defined contribution plans include
profit-sharing plans, stock bonus plans, and money purchase pension plans.
Example. Company A has a money purchase pension
plan. Its plan year is from July 1 to June 30. The plan provides that contributions must be allocated as of June 30.
An employee leaves Company A on December 31, 2024.
The contribution for the plan year ending on June 30,
2025, is made February 15, 2026. Because an amount is
contributed to the employee’s account for the plan year,
this employee is covered by the plan for their 2025 tax
year.
Note: A special rule applies to certain plans in which it
isn’t possible to determine if an amount will be contributed
to your account for a given plan year. If, for a plan year, no
amounts have been allocated to your account that are attributable
to
employer
contributions,
employee
12

Chapter 1

contributions, or forfeitures, by the last day of the plan
year, and contributions are discretionary for the plan year,
you aren’t covered for the tax year in which the plan year
ends. If, after the plan year ends, the employer makes a
contribution for that plan year, you are covered for the tax
year in which the contribution is made.
Example. You were covered by a profit-sharing plan
and left the company on December 31, 2024. The plan
year runs from July 1 to June 30. Under the terms of the
plan, employer contributions don’t have to be made, but if
they are made, they are contributed to the plan before the
due date for filing the company's tax return. Such contributions are allocated as of the last day of the plan year, and
allocations are made to the accounts of individuals who
have any service during the plan year. As of June 30,
2025, no contributions were made that were allocated to
the June 30, 2025, plan year, and no forfeitures had been
allocated within the plan year. In addition, as of that date,
the company wasn’t obligated to make a contribution for
such plan year, and it was impossible to determine
whether or not a contribution would be made for the plan
year. On December 31, 2025, the company decided to
contribute to the plan for the plan year ending June 30,
2025. That contribution was made on February 15, 2026.
You are an active participant in the plan for your 2026 tax
year but not for your 2025 tax year.
No vested interest. If an amount is allocated to your
account for a plan year, you are covered by that plan even
if you have no vested interest in (legal right to) the account.
Defined benefit plan. If you are eligible to participate in
your employer's defined benefit plan for the plan year that
ends within your tax year, you are covered by the plan.
This rule applies even if you:

• Declined to participate in the plan,
• Didn’t make a required contribution, or
• Didn’t perform the minimum service required to accrue
a benefit for the year.

A defined benefit plan is any plan that isn’t a defined
contribution plan. In a defined benefit plan, the level of
benefits to be provided to each participant is spelled out in
the plan. The plan administrator figures the amount needed to provide those benefits, and those amounts are contributed to the plan. Defined benefit plans include pension
plans and annuity plans.
Example. You are an employee of Company B and are
eligible to participate in Company B's defined benefit plan,
which has a July 1 to June 30 plan year. You leave Company B on December 31, 2024. Because you are eligible
to participate in the plan for its year ending June 30, 2025,
you are covered by the plan for your 2025 tax year.
No vested interest. If you accrue a benefit for a plan
year, you are covered by that plan even if you have no vested interest in (legal right to) the accrual.

Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Situations in Which You Aren’t Covered
Unless you are covered by another employer plan, you
aren’t covered by an employer plan if you are in one of the
situations described below.
Social security or railroad retirement. Coverage under
social security or railroad retirement isn’t coverage under
an employer retirement plan.
Benefits from previous employer's plan. If you receive
retirement benefits from a previous employer's plan, you
aren’t covered by that plan.
Reservists. If the only reason you participate in a plan is
because you are a member of a reserve unit of the Armed
Forces, you may not be covered by the plan. You aren’t
covered by the plan if both of the following conditions are
met.
1. The plan you participate in is established for its employees by:
a. The United States,
b. A state or political subdivision of a state, or
c. An instrumentality of either (a) or (b) above.
2. You didn’t serve more than 90 days on active duty
during the year (not counting duty for training).
Volunteer firefighters. If the only reason you participate
in a plan is because you are a volunteer firefighter, you
may not be covered by the plan. You aren’t covered by the
plan if both of the following conditions are met.
1. The plan you participate in is established for its employees by:
a. The United States,
b. A state or political subdivision of a state, or
c. An instrumentality of either (a) or (b) above.
2. Your accrued retirement benefits at the beginning of
the year won’t provide more than $1,800 per year at
retirement.

Limit if Covered by Employer Plan
As discussed earlier, the deduction you can take for contributions made to your traditional IRA depends on
whether you or your spouse was covered for any part of
the year by an employer retirement plan. Your deduction is
also affected by how much income you had and by your
filing status. Your deduction may also be affected by social
security benefits you received.
Reduced or no deduction. If either you or your spouse
was covered by an employer retirement plan, you may be
entitled to only a partial (reduced) deduction or no deduction at all, depending on your income and your filing status.
Your deduction begins to decrease (phase out) when
your income rises above a certain amount and is
Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

eliminated altogether when it reaches a higher amount.
These amounts vary depending on your filing status.
To determine if your deduction is subject to the phaseout, you must determine your modified AGI and your filing
status, as explained later under Deduction Phaseout.
Once you have determined your modified AGI and your filing status, you can use Table 1-2 or Table 1-3 to determine if the phaseout applies.

Social Security Recipients
Instead of using Table 1-2 or Table 1-3 and Worksheet
1-2, complete the worksheets in Appendix B of this publication if, for the year, all of the following apply.

• You received social security benefits.
• You received taxable compensation.
• Contributions were made to your traditional IRA.
• You or your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan.

Use the worksheets in Appendix B to figure your IRA deduction, your nondeductible contribution, and the taxable
portion, if any, of your social security benefits. Appendix B
includes an example with filled-in worksheets to assist
you.

Deduction Phaseout
The amount of any reduction in the limit on your IRA deduction (phaseout) depends on whether you or your
spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan.
Covered by a retirement plan. If you are covered by an
employer retirement plan and you didn’t receive any social
security retirement benefits, your IRA deduction may be
reduced or eliminated depending on your filing status and
modified AGI, as shown in Table 1-2.
If your spouse is covered. If you aren’t covered by an
employer retirement plan, but your spouse is, and you
didn’t receive any social security benefits, your IRA deduction may be reduced or eliminated entirely depending
on your filing status and modified AGI as shown in Table 1-3.
Filing status. Your filing status depends primarily on your
marital status. For this purpose, you need to know if your
filing status is single or head of household, married filing
jointly or qualifying surviving spouse, or married filing separately. If you need more information on filing status, see
Pub. 501, Dependents, Standard Deduction, and Filing Information.
Lived apart from spouse. If you didn’t live with your
spouse at any time during the year and you file a separate
return, your filing status, for this purpose, is single.
Modified AGI. You can use Worksheet 1-1 to figure your
modified AGI. If you made contributions to your IRA for
2025 and received a distribution from your IRA in 2025,
see Both contributions for 2025 and distributions in 2025,
later.
Traditional IRAs

13

Table 1-2. Effect of Modified AGI1 on Deduction if You Are Covered by a Retirement Plan at
Work
If you are covered by a retirement plan at work, use this table to determine if your modified AGI affects the amount of your
deduction.
IF your filing status is...

AND your modified AGI is...

single or
head of household

married filing jointly or
qualifying surviving spouse

married filing separately2

THEN you can take...

$79,000 or less

a full deduction.

more than $79,000
but less than $89,000

a partial deduction.

$89,000 or more

no deduction.

$126,000 or less

a full deduction.

more than $126,000
but less than $146,000

a partial deduction.

$146,000 or more

no deduction.

less than $10,000

a partial deduction.

$10,000 or more

no deduction.

Modified AGI (adjusted gross income). See Modified adjusted gross income (AGI), earlier.
If you didn’t live with your spouse at any time during the year, your filing status is considered Single for this purpose (therefore, your IRA deduction
is determined under the “Single” filing status).
1

2

Table 1-3. Effect of Modified AGI1 on Deduction if You Aren’t Covered by a Retirement Plan at
Work
If you aren’t covered by a retirement plan at work, use this table to determine if your modified AGI affects the amount of
your deduction.
IF your filing status is...

AND your modified AGI is...

THEN you can take...

single,
head of household, or
qualifying surviving spouse

any amount

a full deduction.

married filing jointly or separately with a
spouse who isn’t covered by a plan
at work

any amount

a full deduction.

$236,000 or less

a full deduction.

more than $236,000
but less than $246,000

a partial deduction.

$246,000 or more

no deduction.

less than $10,000

a partial deduction.

$10,000 or more

no deduction.

married filing jointly with a spouse who is
covered by a plan at work

married filing separately with a spouse who is
covered by a plan at work2
1
2

Modified AGI (adjusted gross income). See Modified adjusted gross income (AGI), earlier.
You are entitled to the full deduction if you didn’t live with your spouse at any time during the year.

Don’t assume that your modified AGI is the same
as your compensation. Your modified AGI may inCAUTION clude income in addition to your compensation
(discussed earlier) such as interest, dividends, and income from IRA distributions.

!

Form 1040 or 1040-SR. If you file Form 1040 or
1040-SR, refigure the amount on line 11a, the “adjusted
gross income” line, without taking into account any of the
following amounts.

• Foreign earned income exclusion.
• Foreign housing exclusion or deduction.
• Exclusion of qualified savings bond interest shown on
Form 8815.

• Exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits
shown on Form 8839.

This is your modified AGI.

• IRA deduction.
• Student loan interest deduction.
14

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Form 1040-NR. If you file Form 1040-NR, refigure the
amount on line 11a, the “adjusted gross income” line,
without taking into account any of the following amounts.

• IRA deduction.
• Student loan interest deduction.
• Exclusion of qualified savings bond interest shown on
Form 8815.

• Exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits
shown on Form 8839.

This is your modified AGI.
Income from IRA distributions. If you received distributions in 2025 from one or more traditional IRAs and your
traditional IRAs include only deductible contributions, your
distributions are fully taxable and are included in your
modified AGI. See Pub. 590-B for more information on distributions.

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

Both contributions for 2025 and distributions in
2025. If all three of the following apply, any IRA distributions you received in 2025 may be partly tax free and
partly taxable.

• You received distributions in 2025 from one or more
traditional IRAs.

• You made contributions to a traditional IRA for 2025.
• Some of those contributions may be nondeductible

contributions. (See Nondeductible Contributions and
Worksheet 1-2, later.)

If this is your situation, you must figure the taxable part of
the traditional IRA distribution before you can figure your
modified AGI. To do this, you can use Worksheet 1-1 in
Pub. 590-B.
If at least one of the above doesn’t apply, figure your
modified AGI using Worksheet 1-1.

Traditional IRAs

15

How To Figure Your Reduced IRA Deduction
If you or your spouse is covered by an employer retirement
plan and you didn’t receive any social security benefits,
you can figure your reduced IRA deduction by using Worksheet 1-2. The Instructions for Form 1040 include a similar
worksheet that you can use instead of the worksheet in
this publication.
If you or your spouse is covered by an employer retirement plan, and you received any social security benefits,
see Social Security Recipients, earlier.
Note: If you were married and both you and your
spouse contributed to an IRA, figure your deduction and
your spouse's deduction separately.

Reporting Deductible Contributions
If you file Schedule 1 (Form 1040), enter your IRA deduction on line 20 of that form.
Self-employed. If you are self-employed (a sole proprietor or partner) and have a SIMPLE IRA, enter your deduction for allowable plan contributions on Schedule 1 (Form
1040), line 16.

Nondeductible Contributions
Although your deduction for IRA contributions may be reduced or eliminated, contributions can be made to your
IRA of up to the general limit or, if it applies, the Kay Bailey
Hutchison Spousal IRA limit. The difference between your
total permitted contributions and your IRA deduction, if
any, is your nondeductible contribution.
Example. You are 29 years old and single. In 2025,
you were covered by a retirement plan at work. Your salary
is $72,000. Your modified AGI is $90,000. You make a
$7,000 IRA contribution for 2025. Because you were covered by a retirement plan and your modified AGI is above
$89,000, you can’t deduct your $7,000 IRA contribution.

You must designate this contribution as a nondeductible
contribution by reporting it on Form 8606.
Repayment of reservist distributions. Nondeductible
contributions may include repayments of qualified reservist distributions. For more information, see Qualified reservist repayments under How Much Can Be Contributed,
earlier.
Difficulty of care payments. For contributions after December 20, 2019, you are able to elect to increase the
nondeductible IRA contribution limit by some or all of the
amount of difficulty of care payments, which are a type of
qualified foster care payment, received. If you receive difficulty of care payments, then those amounts may increase
the amount of nondeductible IRA contributions you can
make but not above the $7,000 IRA deductible amount
($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). The increase to the
nondeductible IRA contribution limit equals the lesser of (i)
the amount of difficulty of care payments excluded from
gross income, or (ii) the amount by which the deductible
limit for IRA contributions exceeds the amount of the taxpayer's compensation included in gross income for the tax
year.
Form 8606. To designate contributions as nondeductible,
you must file Form 8606.
You don’t have to designate a contribution as nondeductible until you file your tax return. When you file, you
can even designate otherwise deductible contributions as
nondeductible contributions.
You must file Form 8606 to report nondeductible contributions even if you don’t have to file a tax return for the
year.
A Form 8606 isn’t used for the year that you make
a rollover from a qualified retirement plan to a traCAUTION ditional IRA and the rollover includes nontaxable
amounts. In those situations, a Form 8606 is completed
for the year you take a distribution from that IRA. See
Form 8606 under Distributions Fully or Partly Taxable in
Pub. 590-B.

!

Worksheet 1-1. Figuring Your Modified AGI

Keep for Your Records

Use this worksheet to figure your modified AGI for traditional IRA purposes.
1.

Enter your adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040, 1040-SR, or Form 1040-NR,
line 11a, figured without taking into account the amount from Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2.

Enter any student loan interest deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 21 . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3.

Enter any foreign earned income exclusion and/or housing exclusion from Form 2555,
line 45 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4.

Enter any foreign housing deduction from Form 2555, line 50 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5.

Enter any excludable savings bond interest from Form 8815, line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6.

Enter any excluded employer-provided adoption benefits from Form 8839, line 30 . . . . . . . .

6.

7.

Add lines 1 through 6. This is your modified AGI for traditional IRA purposes . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

16

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Failure to report nondeductible contributions. If you
don’t report nondeductible contributions, all of the contributions to your traditional IRA will be treated like deductible contributions when withdrawn. All distributions from
your IRA will be taxed unless you can show, with satisfactory evidence, that nondeductible contributions were
made.
Penalty for overstatement. If you overstate the amount
of nondeductible contributions on your Form 8606 for any
tax year, you must pay a penalty of $100 for each overstatement, unless it was due to reasonable cause.
Penalty for failure to file Form 8606. You will have to
pay a $50 penalty if you don’t file a required Form 8606,
unless you can prove that the failure was due to reasonable cause.
Tax on earnings on nondeductible contributions. As
long as contributions are within the contribution limits,
none of the earnings or gains on contributions (deductible
or nondeductible) will be taxed until they are distributed.
Cost basis. You will have a cost basis in your traditional
IRA if you made any nondeductible contributions. Your
cost basis is the sum of the nondeductible contributions to
your IRA minus any withdrawals or distributions of nondeductible contributions.
Commonly, distributions from your traditional IRAs
will include both taxable and nontaxable (cost baCAUTION sis) amounts. See Pub. 590-B for more information on distributions.

!

Recordkeeping. There is a recordkeeping worksheet, Appendix A. Summary Record of TradiRECORDS tional IRA(s) for 2025, that you can use to keep a
record of deductible and nondeductible IRA contributions.

Examples—Worksheet for Reduced
IRA Deduction for 2025
The following examples illustrate the use of Worksheet
1-2.
Example 1. For 2025, you and your spouse file a joint
return on Form 1040. You are both 39 years old. You are
both employed. You are covered by your employer’s retirement plan. However, your spouse isn’t covered by their
employer’s retirement plan. Your salary is $66,000, and
your spouse’s salary is $51,500. You each have a traditional IRA and your combined modified AGI, which includes $9,000 interest and dividend income, is $126,500.

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

Because your modified AGI is between $126,000 and
$146,000 and you are covered by an employer plan, you
are subject to the deduction phaseout discussed earlier
under Limit if Covered by Employer Plan.
For 2025, you and your spouse each contributed
$7,000 to your respective IRAs. Even though you file a
joint return, you must figure their IRA deductions
separately.
You can take a deduction of only $6,825. Using Worksheet 1-2, you figure your deductible and nondeductible
amounts as shown on Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2025—Example 1 Illustrated.
You can choose to treat the $6,825 as either deductible
or nondeductible contributions. You can either leave the
$175 ($7,000 − $6,825) of nondeductible contributions in
your IRA or withdraw them by April 15, 2026. You decide
to treat the $6,825 as a deductible contribution and leave
the $175 of nondeductible contributions in your IRA.
Your spouse can treat all or part of their $7,000 contribution as either deductible or nondeductible. This is because they aren’t covered by their employer's retirement
plan and your combined modified AGI isn’t between
$236,000 and $246,000. Therefore, they aren’t subject to
the deduction phaseout discussed earlier under Limit if
Covered by Employer Plan, and they don’t need to use
Worksheet 1-2. Your spouse decides to treat their $7,000
IRA contribution as deductible.
The IRA deductions of $6,825 and $7,000 on the joint
return for you and your spouse total $13,825.
Example 2. For 2025, you and your spouse file a joint
return on Form 1040. You are both 39 years old. Your salary is $45,500 and you are covered by your employer's retirement plan. Your spouse had no compensation for the
year and was not covered by an employer plan. You contribute $7,000 to your traditional IRA and $7,000 to your
spouse's traditional IRA (a Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal
IRA). Your combined modified AGI which includes $2,000
interest and dividend income and a large capital gain from
the sale of stock is $238,500.
Because your combined modified AGI is $146,000 or
more and you are covered by your employer's plan, you
can’t deduct any of the contribution to your traditional IRA.
You can either leave the $7,000 of nondeductible contributions in your IRA or withdraw them by April 15, 2026.
Your spouse figures their IRA deduction as shown on
Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for
2025—Example 2 Illustrated.

Traditional IRAs

17

Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA
Deduction for 2025

Keep for Your Records

(Use only if you or your spouse is covered by an employer plan and your modified AGI falls between the two amounts
shown below for your coverage situation and filing status.)

.

Note. If you were married and both you and your spouse contributed to IRAs, figure your deduction and your spouse's
deduction separately.

IF you...
are covered by an
employer plan

aren’t covered by an
employer plan, but your
spouse is covered

AND your
modified AGI THEN enter on
is over...
line 1 below...

AND your
filing status is...
single or head of
household

$79,000

$89,000

married filing jointly or
qualifying surviving
spouse

$126,000

$146,000

married filing separately

$0

$10,000

married filing jointly

$236,000

$246,000

married filing separately

$0

$10,000

1.

Enter applicable amount from table above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2.

Enter your modified AGI (that of both spouses, if married filing jointly) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

Note: If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here.
Your IRA contributions aren’t deductible. See Nondeductible Contributions, earlier.
3.

4.

Subtract line 2 from line 1. If line 3 is $10,000 or more ($20,000 or more if married filing
jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an employer plan), stop
here. You can take a full IRA deduction for contributions of up to $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50
or older) or 100% of your (and if married filing jointly, your spouse's) compensation, whichever is
less . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn’t a multiple of
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.

• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an

6.
7.
8.

18

employer plan, multiply line 3 by 35% (0.35) (by 40% (0.40) if you are age 50 or
older).
All others, multiply line 3 by 70% (0.70) (by 80% (0.80) if you are age 50 or older).

......

4.

Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15 (deductible
part of self-employment tax), and Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16 (self-employed SEP, SIMPLE,
and qualified plans). If you are filing a joint return and your compensation is less than your
spouse's, include your spouse's compensation reduced by their traditional IRA and Roth IRA
contributions for this year. If you file Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, don’t reduce your
compensation by any losses from self-employment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

Enter contributions made, or to be made, to your IRA for 2025, but don’t enter more than $7,000
($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). If contributions are more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50
or older), see Excess Contributions, later . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

IRA deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount (or a smaller amount if you
choose) here and on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20. If line 6 is more than line 7 and you
want to make a nondeductible contribution, go to line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

Nondeductible contribution. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or line 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

•
5.

3.

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2025—Example 1 Illustrated
(Use only if you or your spouse is covered by an employer plan and your modified AGI falls between the two amounts
shown below for your coverage situation and filing status.)

.

Note. If you were married and both you and your spouse contributed to IRAs, figure your deduction and your spouse's
deduction separately.

IF you...
are covered by an
employer plan

aren’t covered by an
employer plan, but your
spouse is covered

AND your
modified AGI THEN enter on
is over...
line 1 below...

AND your
filing status is...
single or head of
household

$79,000

$89,000

married filing jointly or
qualifying surviving
spouse

$126,000

$146,000

married filing separately

$0

$10,000

married filing jointly

$236,000

$246,000

married filing separately

$0

$10,000

1.

Enter applicable amount from table above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

146,000

2.

Enter your modified AGI (that of both spouses, if married filing jointly) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

126,500

3.

19,500

......

4.

6,825

Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15 (deductible
part of self-employment tax), and Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16 (self-employed SEP, SIMPLE,
and qualified plans). If you are filing a joint return and your compensation is less than your
spouse's, include your spouse's compensation reduced by their traditional IRA and Roth IRA
contributions for this year. If you file Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, don’t reduce your
compensation by any losses from self-employment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

66,000

Enter contributions made, or to be made, to your IRA for 2025, but don’t enter more than $7,000
($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). If contributions are more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50
or older), see Excess Contributions, later . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7,000

IRA deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount (or a smaller amount if you
choose) here and on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20. If line 6 is more than line 7 and you
want to make a nondeductible contribution, go to line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

6,825

Nondeductible contribution. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or line 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

175

Note: If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here.
Your IRA contributions are not deductible. See Nondeductible Contributions, earlier.
3.

4.

Subtract line 2 from line 1. If line 3 is $10,000 or more ($20,000 or more if married filing
jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an employer plan), stop
here. You can take a full IRA deduction for contributions of up to $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50
or older) or 100% of your (and if married filing jointly, your spouse's) compensation, whichever is
less . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn’t a multiple of
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.

• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an
•
5.

6.
7.
8.

employer plan, multiply line 3 by 35% (0.35) (by 40% (0.40) if you are age 50 or
older).
All others, multiply line 3 by 70% (0.70) (by 80% (0.80) if you are age 50 or older).

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

19

Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2025—Example 2 Illustrated
(Use only if you or your spouse is covered by an employer plan and your modified AGI falls between the two amounts
shown below for your coverage situation and filing status.)

.

Note: If you were married and both you and your spouse contributed to IRAs, figure your deduction and your spouse's
deduction separately.

IF you...
are covered by an
employer plan

aren’t covered by an
employer plan, but your
spouse is covered

AND your
modified AGI THEN enter on
is over...
line 1 below...

AND your
filing status is...
single or head of
household

$79,000

$89,000

married filing jointly or
qualifying surviving
spouse

$126,000

$146,000

married filing separately

$0

$10,000

married filing jointly

$236,000

$246,000

married filing separately

$0

$10,000

1.

Enter applicable amount from table above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

246,000

2.

Enter your modified AGI (that of both spouses, if married filing jointly) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

238,500

3.

7,500

......

4.

5,250

Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15 (deductible
part of self-employment tax), and Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16 (self-employed SEP, SIMPLE,
and qualified plans). If you are filing a joint return and your compensation is less than your
spouse's, include your spouse's compensation reduced by their traditional IRA and Roth IRA
contributions for this year. If you file Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, don’t reduce your
compensation by any losses from self-employment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

38,500

Enter contributions made, or to be made, to your IRA for 2025, but don’t enter more than $7,000
($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). If contributions are more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50
or older), see Excess Contributions, later . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7,000

IRA deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount (or a smaller amount if you
choose) here and on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20, whichever applies. If line 6 is more
than line 7 and you want to make a nondeductible contribution, go to line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

5,250

Nondeductible contribution. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or line 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

1,750

Note: If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here.
Your IRA contributions aren’t deductible. See Nondeductible Contributions, earlier.
3.

4.

Subtract line 2 from line 1. If line 3 is $10,000 or more ($20,000 or more if married filing
jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an employer plan), stop
here. You can take a full IRA deduction for contributions of up to $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50
or older) or 100% of your (and if married filing jointly, your spouse's) compensation, whichever is
less . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn’t a multiple of
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.

• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an
•
5.

6.
7.
8.

20

employer plan, multiply line 3 by 35% (0.35) (by 40% (0.40) if you are age 50 or
older).
All others, multiply line 3 by 70% (0.70) (by 80% (0.80) if you are age 50 or older).

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

What if You Inherit an IRA?
If you inherit a traditional IRA, you are called a beneficiary.
A beneficiary can be any person or entity the owner chooses to receive the benefits of the IRA after the owner dies.
Beneficiaries of a traditional IRA must include in their
gross income any taxable distributions they receive.

Inherited From Spouse
If you inherit a traditional IRA from your spouse, you generally have the following three choices.
1. Treat it as your own IRA by designating yourself as the
account owner.
2. Treat it as your own by rolling it over into your IRA, or
to the extent it is taxable, into a:
a. Qualified employer plan,
b. Qualified employee annuity plan (section 403(a)
plan),
c. Tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan),
or
d. Deferred compensation plan of a state or local
government (section 457 plan).
3. Treat yourself as the beneficiary rather than treating
the IRA as your own.
Treating it as your own. You will be considered to have
chosen to treat the IRA as your own if:

• Contributions (including rollover contributions) are
made to the inherited IRA, or

• You don’t take the RMD for a year as a beneficiary of
the IRA.

You will only be considered to have chosen to treat the
IRA as your own if:

• You are the sole beneficiary of the IRA, and
• You have an unlimited right to withdraw amounts from
it.

However, if you receive a distribution from your deceased spouse's IRA, you can roll that distribution over
into your own IRA within the 60-day time limit, as long as
the distribution isn’t a required distribution, even if you
aren’t the sole beneficiary of your deceased spouse's IRA.
For more information, see When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions) in Pub. 590-B for
more information on RMDs.

your own. This means that you can’t make any contributions to the IRA. It also means you can’t roll over any
amounts into or out of the inherited IRA. However, you can
make a trustee-to-trustee transfer as long as the IRA into
which amounts are being moved is set up and maintained
in the name of the deceased IRA owner for the benefit of
you as beneficiary. See Pub. 590-B for more information.
Like the original owner, you generally won’t owe tax on
the assets in the IRA until you receive distributions from it.
You must begin receiving distributions from the IRA under
the rules for distributions that apply to beneficiaries.
More information. For more information about rollovers,
required distributions, and inherited IRAs, see:

• Rollovers, later, under Can You Move Retirement Plan
Assets;

• When Must You Withdraw Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions) in Pub. 590-B; and

• IRA Beneficiaries under When Must You Withdraw As-

sets? (Required Minimum Distributions) in Pub. 590-B.

Can You Move Retirement Plan
Assets?
You can transfer, tax free, assets (money or property) from
other retirement programs (including traditional IRAs) to a
traditional IRA. You can make the following kinds of transfers.

• Transfers from one trustee to another.
• Rollovers.
• Transfers incident to a divorce.
This chapter discusses all three kinds of transfers.
Transfers to Roth IRAs. Under certain conditions, you
can move assets from a traditional IRA or from a designated Roth account to a Roth IRA. For more information
about these transfers, see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA, later in this chapter, and Can
You Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA? in chapter 2.
Transfers to Roth IRAs from other retirement
plans. Under certain conditions, you can move assets
from a qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA. For more information, see Can You Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA?
in chapter 2.

Inherited From Someone Other Than
Spouse
If you inherit a traditional IRA from anyone other than your
deceased spouse, you can’t treat the inherited IRA as

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

21

Trustee-to-Trustee Transfer
A transfer of funds in your traditional IRA from one trustee
directly to another, either at your request or at the trustee's
request, isn’t a rollover. This includes the situation where
the current trustee issues a check to the new trustee but
gives it to you to deposit. Because there is no distribution
to you, the transfer is tax free. Because it isn’t a rollover, it
isn’t affected by the 1-year waiting period required between rollovers. This waiting period is discussed later under Rollover From One IRA Into Another.
For information about direct transfers from retirement
programs other than traditional IRAs, see Direct rollover
option, later.

Rollovers
Generally, a rollover is a tax-free distribution to you of cash
or other assets from one retirement plan that you contribute to another retirement plan within 60 days you received
the payment or distribution. The contribution to the second
retirement plan is called a rollover contribution.
Note: An amount rolled over tax free from one retirement plan to another is generally includible in income
when it is distributed from the second plan.
Kinds of rollovers to a traditional IRA. You can roll
over amounts from the following plans into a traditional
IRA.

• A traditional IRA.
• An employer's qualified retirement plan for its employees.

• A deferred compensation plan of a state or local government (section 457 plan).

• A tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan).
Also, see Table 1-4.
Treatment of rollovers. You can’t deduct a rollover contribution, but you must report the rollover distribution on
your tax return as discussed later under Reporting rollovers from IRAs and Reporting rollovers from employer
plans.
Rollover notice. A written explanation of rollover treatment must be given to you by the plan (other than an IRA)
making the distribution. See Written explanation to recipients, later, for more details.
Kinds of rollovers from a traditional IRA. You may be
able to roll over, tax free, a distribution from your traditional
IRA into a qualified plan. These plans include the Federal
Thrift Savings Plan (for federal employees), deferred compensation plans of state or local governments (section
457 plans), and tax-sheltered annuity plans (section
403(b) plans). The part of the distribution that you can roll
over is the part that would otherwise be taxable (includible
in your income). Qualified plans may, but aren’t required
to, accept such rollovers.
22

Chapter 1

Tax treatment of a rollover from a traditional IRA to
an eligible retirement plan other than an IRA. Ordinarily, when you have basis in your IRAs, any distribution is
considered to include both nontaxable and taxable
amounts. Without a special rule, the nontaxable portion of
such a distribution couldn’t be rolled over. However, a special rule treats a distribution you roll over into an eligible
retirement plan as including only otherwise taxable
amounts if the amount you either leave in your IRAs or
don’t roll over is at least equal to your basis. The effect of
this special rule is to make the amount in your traditional
IRAs that you can roll over to an eligible retirement plan as
large as possible.
Eligible retirement plans. The following are considered eligible retirement plans.

• IRAs.
• Qualified trusts.
• Qualified employee annuity plans under section
403(a).

• Deferred compensation plans of state and local governments (section 457 plans).

• Tax-sheltered annuities (section 403(b) annuities).
Time Limit for Making a Rollover
Contribution
You must generally make the rollover contribution by the
60th day after the day you receive the distribution from
your traditional IRA or your employer's plan.
Example. You received an eligible rollover distribution
from your traditional IRA on June 30, 2025, that you intend
to roll over to your 403(b) plan. To postpone including the
distribution in your income, you must complete the rollover
by August 29, 2025, the 60th day following June 30.
The IRS may waive the 60-day requirement where the
failure to do so would be against equity or good conscience, such as in the event of a casualty, a disaster, or
another event beyond your reasonable control. For exceptions to the 60-day period, see Ways to get a waiver of the
60-day rollover requirement, later.
Plan loan offset. A plan loan offset is the amount your
employer plan account balance is reduced, or offset, to repay a loan from the plan. How long you have to complete
the rollover of a plan loan offset depends on what kind of
plan loan offset you have. For tax years beginning after
December 31, 2017, if you have a qualified plan loan offset, you will have until the due date (including extensions)
for your tax return for the tax year in which the offset occurs to complete your rollover. A qualified plan loan offset
occurs when a plan loan in good standing is offset because your employer plan terminates, or because you
sever from employment. If your plan loan offset occurs for
any other reason, then you have 60 days from the date the
offset occurs to complete your rollover.
Rollovers completed after the 60-day period. In the
absence of a waiver, amounts not rolled over within the
Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Table 1-4. Rollover Chart
The following chart indicates the rollovers that are permitted between various types of plans.
Roll To
Roth IRA1

Traditional Traditional Roth
IRA2
SIMPLE
SIMPLE
IRA
IRA

Yes4

No

No

Traditional Yes6
IRA2

Yes4

Yes,4 10 after Yes6 after 2
2 years5
years5

Roth IRA1

Roll
From

Governmental
457(b)
Plan
(pre-tax)

Yes,4 after 2 No
years5
Yes7

Qualified
Plan3
(pre-tax)

403(b) Plan Designated
(pre-tax)
Roth
Account
(401(k),
403(b), or
457(b))

No

No

No

Yes

Yes

No

Traditional Yes,6 after 2 Yes,4 after 2 Yes4
SIMPLE
years5
years5
IRA

Yes6

Yes,7 after 2 Yes, after 2
years5
years5

Yes, after 2
years5

No

Roth
SIMPLE
IRA

Yes,4 after 2 No
years5

No

Yes4

No

No

No

No

Governmental
457(b)
Plan
(pre-tax)

Yes6

Yes

Yes,10 after
2 years5

Yes,6 after 2 Yes
years5

Yes

Yes

Yes6 8

Qualified
Plan3
(pre-tax)

Yes6

Yes

Yes,10 after
2 years5

Yes,6 after 2 Yes7
years5

Yes

Yes

Yes6 8

403(b) Plan Yes6
(pre-tax)

Yes

Yes,10 after
2 years5

Yes,6 after 2 Yes7
years5

Yes

Yes

Yes6 8

Designated Yes
Roth
Account
(401(k),
403(b), or
457(b))

No

No

Yes, after 2
years5

No

No

Yes9

No

Roth IRAs include Roth IRAs that receive employer contributions from a SEP arrangement.
Traditional IRAs include traditional IRAs that receive employer contributions from a SEP arrangement.
3
Qualified plans include, for example, profit-sharing, 401(k), money purchase, and defined benefit plans.
4
Only one rollover in any 12-month period.
5
After the 2-year period beginning on the date you first participated in a qualified salary reduction arrangement under your
employer’s SIMPLE IRA plan.
6
Must include in income.
7
Must have separate accounts.
8
Must be an in-plan rollover.
9
Any nontaxable amounts distributed must be rolled over by direct trustee-to-trustee transfer.
10
Applies to rollover contributions after December 18, 2015. For more information regarding retirement plans and rollovers, go to
Tax Information for Retirement Plans.
1

2

60-day period don’t qualify for tax-free rollover treatment.
You must treat them as a taxable distribution from either
your IRA or your employer's plan. These amounts are taxable in the year distributed, even if the 60-day period expires in the next year. You may also have to pay a 10% additional tax on early distributions as discussed under Early
Distributions in Pub. 590-B.
Unless there is a waiver or an extension of the 60-day
rollover period, any contribution you make to your IRA
Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

more than 60 days after the distribution is a regular contribution, not a rollover contribution.
Example. You received a distribution in late December
2025 from a traditional IRA that you don’t roll over into another traditional IRA within the 60-day limit. You don’t qualify for a waiver. This distribution is taxable in 2025 even
though the 60-day limit wasn’t up until 2026.

Traditional IRAs

23

Ways to get a waiver of the 60-day rollover requirement. There are three ways to obtain a waiver of the
60-day rollover requirement.

• You qualify for an automatic waiver.
• You self-certify that you met the requirements of a
waiver.

• You request and receive a private letter ruling granting
a waiver.

How do you qualify for an automatic waiver? You
qualify for an automatic waiver if all of the following apply.

• The financial institution receives the funds on your be-

How does the IRS determine whether to grant a
waiver in a private letter ruling? In determining
whether to issue a favorable letter ruling granting a waiver,
the IRS will consider all of the relevant facts and circumstances, including:

• Whether errors were made by the financial institution,

that is, the plan administrator, or IRA trustee, issuer, or
custodian;

• Whether you were unable to complete the rollover

within the 60-day period due to death, disability, hospitalization, incarceration, serious illness, restrictions imposed by a foreign country, or postal error;

• You followed all of the procedures set by the financial

• Whether you used the amount distributed; and
• How much time has passed since the date of the dis-

• The funds aren’t deposited into a plan or IRA within

Note: The IRS can waive only the 60-day rollover requirement and not the other requirements for a valid rollover contribution. For example, the IRS can’t waive the
IRA one-rollover-per-year rule.

half before the end of the 60-day rollover period.

institution for depositing the funds into an IRA or other
eligible retirement plan within the 60-day rollover period (including giving instructions to deposit the funds
into a plan or IRA).

the 60-day rollover period solely because of an error
on the part of the financial institution.

• The funds are deposited into a plan or IRA within 1

year from the beginning of the 60-day rollover period.

• It would have been a valid rollover if the financial institution had deposited the funds as instructed.

If you don’t qualify for an automatic waiver, you can use
the self-certification procedure to make a late rollover contribution or you can apply to the IRS for a waiver of the
60-day rollover requirement.
How do you self-certify that you qualify for a waiver?
Pursuant to Revenue Procedure 2020-46 in Internal Revenue Bulletin 2020-45, available at IRB 2020-45, you may
make a written certification to a plan administrator or an
IRA trustee that you missed the 60-day rollover contribution deadline because of one or more of the reasons listed
in Revenue Procedure 2020-46. A plan administrator or an
IRA trustee may rely on the certification in accepting and
reporting receipt of the rollover contribution. You may
make the certification by using the model letter in the appendix to the revenue procedure or by using a letter that is
substantially similar. There is no IRS fee for self-certification. A copy of the certification should be kept in your files
and be available if requested on audit.
Note: A self-certification is not a waiver by the IRS of
the 60-day rollover requirement. If the IRS subsequently
audits your income tax return, it may determine that you
do not qualify for a waiver, in which case you may owe additional taxes and penalties.
How do you apply for a waiver and what is the fee?
You can request a ruling according to the procedures outlined in Revenue Procedure 2003-16 and Revenue Procedure 2026-4. The appropriate user fee of $18,500 must
accompany every request for a waiver of the 60-day rollover requirement (see the user fee chart in Appendix A of
Revenue Procedure 2026-4).
24

Chapter 1

tribution.

For more information on waivers of the 60-day rollover
requirement, go to RetirementPlans-FAQs.
Amount. The rules regarding the amount that can be rolled over within the 60-day time period also apply to the
amount that can be deposited due to a waiver. For example, if you received $6,000 from your IRA, the most that
you can deposit into an eligible retirement plan due to a
waiver is $6,000.
Extension of rollover period. If an amount distributed to
you from a traditional IRA or a qualified employer retirement plan is a frozen deposit at any time during the 60-day
period allowed for a rollover, two special rules extend the
rollover period.

• The period during which the amount is a frozen deposit isn’t counted in the 60-day period.

• The 60-day period can’t end earlier than 10 days after
the deposit is no longer frozen.

Frozen deposit. This is any deposit that can’t be withdrawn from a financial institution because of either of the
following reasons.

• The financial institution is bankrupt or insolvent.
• The state where the institution is located restricts with-

drawals because one or more financial institutions in
the state are (or are about to be) bankrupt or insolvent.

Rollover From One IRA Into Another
You can withdraw, tax free, all or part of the assets from
one traditional IRA if you reinvest them within 60 days in
the same or another traditional IRA. Because this is a rollover, you can’t deduct the amount that you reinvest in an
IRA.

Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

You may be able to treat a contribution made to

TIP one type of IRA as having been made to a differ-

ent type of IRA. This is called recharacterizing the
contribution. See Recharacterizations in this chapter for
more information.
Waiting period between rollovers. Generally, if you
make a tax-free rollover of any part of a distribution from a
traditional IRA, you can’t, within a 1-year period, make a
tax-free rollover of any later distribution from that same
IRA. You also can’t make a tax-free rollover of any amount
distributed, within the same 1-year period, from the IRA
into which you made the tax-free rollover.
The 1-year period begins on the date you receive the
IRA distribution, not on the date you roll it over into an IRA.
Rules apply to the number of rollovers you can have with
your traditional IRAs. See Application of one-rollover-per-year limitation, later.
Example. You have two traditional IRAs, IRA-1 and
IRA-2. In 2025, you made a tax-free rollover of a distribution from IRA-1 into a new traditional IRA (IRA-3). You
can’t, within 1 year of the distribution from IRA-1, make a
tax-free rollover of any distribution from either IRA-1 or
IRA-3 into another traditional IRA.
For 2025, the rollover from IRA-1 into IRA-3 prevents
you from making a tax-free rollover from IRA-2 into any
other traditional IRA. This is because in 2025 you are only
allowed to make one rollover within a 1-year period. So,
when you make a rollover from IRA-1 to IRA-3, you can’t
make a rollover from IRA-2 to any other traditional IRA.
Exception. An IRA distribution made from a failed financial institution by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as receiver is not treated as a rollover for purposes of the one-rollover-per-year limitation, provided:
1. Neither the failed financial institution nor the depositor
initiated the distribution, and
2. No financial institution has assumed the IRAs of the
failed financial institution.
Application of one-rollover-per-year limitation. You
can make only one rollover from an IRA to another (or the
same) IRA in any 1-year period regardless of the number
of IRAs you own. The limit will apply by aggregating all of
an individual's IRAs (whether traditional, Roth, or SIMPLE), effectively treating them as one IRA for purposes of
the limit. However, trustee-to-trustee transfers between
IRAs aren’t limited and rollovers from traditional IRAs to
Roth IRAs (conversions) aren’t limited.
Example. You have three traditional IRAs: IRA-1,
IRA-2, and IRA-3. You didn’t take any distributions from
your IRAs in 2025. On January 1, 2026, you took a distribution from IRA-1 and rolled it over into IRA-2 on the same
day. For 2026, you can’t roll over any other 2026 IRA distribution, including a rollover distribution involving IRA-3.
This wouldn’t apply to a conversion.
The same property must be rolled over. If property is
distributed to you from an IRA and you complete the rollPublication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

over by contributing property to an IRA, your rollover is tax
free only if the property you contribute is the same property that was distributed to you.
Partial rollovers. If you withdraw assets from a traditional IRA, you can roll over part of the withdrawal tax free
and keep the rest of it. The amount you keep will generally
be taxable (except for the part that is a return of nondeductible contributions). The amount you keep may be subject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions discussed later under What Acts Result in Penalties or
Additional Taxes.
Required distributions. Amounts that must be distributed during a particular year under the required distribution rules (discussed in Pub. 590-B) aren’t eligible for rollover treatment.
Inherited IRAs. If you inherit a traditional IRA from your
spouse, you can generally roll it over, or you can choose to
make the inherited IRA your own as discussed earlier under What if You Inherit an IRA.
Reporting rollovers from IRAs. Report any rollover
from one traditional IRA to the same or another traditional
IRA on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, lines 4a and
4b.
Enter the total amount of the distribution on Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 4a. If the total amount on Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 4a, was rolled over, enter zero on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 4b. If
the total distribution wasn't rolled over, enter the taxable
portion of the part that wasn't rolled over on Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 4b. Check the box on line 4c
for rollovers. See your tax return instructions.
If you rolled over the distribution into a qualified plan
(other than an IRA) or you make the rollover in 2026, attach a statement explaining what you did.
For information on how to figure the taxable portion,
see Are Distributions Taxable? in Pub. 590-B.

Rollover From Employer's Plan Into an IRA
You can roll over into a traditional IRA all or part of an eligible rollover distribution you receive from your (or your deceased spouse's):

• Employer's qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock
bonus plan;

• Annuity plan;
• Tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan); or
• Governmental deferred compensation plan (section
457 plan).

A qualified plan is one that meets the requirements of
the Internal Revenue Code.
Eligible rollover distribution. Generally, an eligible rollover distribution is any distribution of all or part of the balance to your credit in a qualified retirement plan except the
following.
Traditional IRAs

25

1. An RMD (explained under When Must You Withdraw
Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions) in Pub.
590-B).

• The requirement to withhold tax from the distribution if

2. A hardship distribution.

• The tax treatment of any part of the distribution that

3. Any of a series of substantially equal periodic distributions paid at least once a year over:
a. Your lifetime or life expectancy,
b. The lifetimes or life expectancies of you and your
beneficiary, or
c. A period of 10 years or more.
4. Corrective distributions of excess contributions or excess deferrals, and any income allocable to the excess, or of excess annual additions and any allocable
gains.
5. A loan treated as a distribution because it doesn’t satisfy certain requirements either when made or later
(such as upon default), unless the participant's accrued benefits are reduced (offset) to repay the loan.
See the discussion earlier of plan loan offsets (including qualified plan loan offsets) under Time Limit for
Making a Rollover Contribution.
6. Dividends on employer securities.

you roll over to a traditional IRA or another eligible retirement plan within 60 days after you receive the distribution.

• Other qualified retirement plan rules, if they apply, including those for lump-sum distributions, alternate
payees, and cash or deferred arrangements.

• How the plan receiving the distribution differs from the
plan making the distribution in its restrictions and tax
consequences.

The plan administrator must provide you with this written explanation no earlier than 90 days and no later than
30 days before the distribution is made.
However, you can choose to have a distribution made
less than 30 days after the explanation is provided as long
as both of the following requirements are met.

• You are given at least 30 days after the notice is provi-

ded to consider whether you want to elect a direct rollover.

• You are given information that clearly states that you
have this 30-day period to make the decision.

7. The cost of life insurance coverage.
Your rollover into a traditional IRA may include both
amounts that would be taxable and amounts that wouldn’t
be taxable if they were distributed to you but not rolled
over. To the extent the distribution is rolled over into a traditional IRA, it isn’t includible in your income.
Any nontaxable amounts that you roll over into

TIP your traditional IRA become part of your basis

(cost) in your IRAs. To recover your basis when
you take distributions from your IRA, you must complete
Form 8606 for the year of the distribution. See Form 8606
under Distributions Fully or Partly Taxable in Pub. 590-B.
Rollover by nonspouse beneficiary. If you are a designated beneficiary (other than a surviving spouse) of a deceased employee, you can roll over all or part of an eligible rollover distribution from one of the types of plans
listed above into a traditional IRA. You must make the rollover by a direct trustee-to-trustee transfer into an inherited
IRA.
You will determine your RMDs in years after you make
the rollover based on whether the employee died before
their required beginning date for taking distributions from
the plan. For more information, see Distributions after the
employee's death under Tax on Excess Accumulation in
Pub. 575.
Written explanation to recipients. Before making an eligible rollover distribution, the administrator of a qualified
retirement plan must provide you with a written explanation. It must tell you about all of the following.

• Your right to have the distribution paid tax free directly
to a traditional IRA or another eligible retirement plan.

26

it isn’t paid directly to a traditional IRA or another eligible retirement plan.

Chapter 1

Contact the plan administrator if you have any questions
regarding this information.
Withholding requirement. Generally, if an eligible rollover distribution is paid directly to you, the payer must
withhold 20% of it. This applies even if you plan to roll over
the distribution to a traditional IRA. You can avoid withholding by choosing the direct rollover option, discussed
later.
Exceptions. The payer doesn’t have to withhold from
an eligible rollover distribution paid to you if either of the
following conditions applies.

• The distribution and all previous eligible rollover distributions you received during your tax year from the
same plan (or, at the payer's option, from all your employer's plans) total less than $200.

• The distribution consists solely of employer securities,
plus cash of $200 or less in lieu of fractional shares.

The amount withheld is part of the distribution. If
you roll over less than the full amount of the distriCAUTION bution, you may have to include in your income
the amount you don’t roll over. However, you can make up
the amount withheld with funds from other sources.

!

Other withholding rules. The 20% withholding requirement doesn’t apply to distributions that aren’t eligible
rollover distributions. However, other withholding rules apply to these distributions. The rules that apply depend on
whether the distribution is a periodic distribution or a nonperiodic distribution. For either of these types of distributions, you can still choose not to have tax withheld. For
more information, see Pub. 505.
Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Direct rollover option. Your employer's qualified plan
must give you the option to have any part of an eligible
rollover distribution paid directly to a traditional IRA. The
plan isn’t required to give you this option if your eligible
rollover distributions are expected to total less than $200
for the year.

employee's elective contributions to a 401(k) plan, which
aren’t deductible by the employee.
If you receive a distribution from your employer's qualified plan of any part of the balance of your DECs and the
earnings from them, you can roll over any part of the distribution.

Withholding. If you choose the direct rollover option,
no tax is withheld from any part of the designated distribution that is directly paid to the trustee of the traditional IRA.
If any part is paid to you, the payer must withhold 20%
of that part's taxable amount.

No waiting period between rollovers. The once-a-year
limit on IRA-to-IRA rollovers doesn’t apply to eligible rollover distributions from an employer plan. You can roll over
more than one distribution from the same employer plan
within a year.

Choosing an option. Table 1-5 may help you decide
which distribution option to choose. Carefully compare the
effects of each option.

IRA as a holding account (conduit IRA) for rollovers
to other eligible plans. If you receive an eligible rollover
distribution from your employer's plan, you can roll over
part or all of it into one or more conduit IRAs. You can later
roll over those assets into a new employer's plan. You can
use a traditional IRA as a conduit IRA. You can roll over
part or all of the conduit IRA to a qualified plan, even if you
make regular contributions to it or add funds from sources
other than your employer's plan. However, if you make
regular contributions to the conduit IRA or add funds from
other sources, the qualified plan into which you move
funds won’t be eligible for any optional tax treatment for
which it might have otherwise qualified.

Table 1-5. Comparison of Payment to You Versus Direct Rollover
Affected item

Result of a payment to
you

Result of a
direct rollover

Withholding

The payer must withhold
20% of the taxable part.

There is no
withholding.

Additional tax

If you are under age 591/2,
a 10% additional tax may
apply to the taxable part
(including an amount
equal to the tax withheld)
that isn’t rolled over.

There is no 10%
additional tax. See
Early Distributions in
Pub. 590-B.

When to report
as income

Any taxable part
(including the taxable part
of any amount withheld)
not rolled over is income
to you in the year paid.

Any taxable part isn’t
income to you until
later distributed to you
from the IRA.

If you decide to roll over any part of a distribution,

TIP the direct rollover option will generally be to your

advantage. This is because you won’t have 20%
withholding or be subject to the 10% additional tax under
that option.

If you have a lump-sum distribution and don’t plan to roll
over any part of it, the distribution may be eligible for special tax treatment that could lower your tax for the distribution year. In that case, you may want to see Pub. 575 and
Form 4972, Tax on Lump-Sum Distributions, and its instructions to determine whether your distribution qualifies
for special tax treatment and, if so, to figure your tax under
the special methods.
You can then compare any advantages from using Form
4972 to figure your tax on the lump-sum distribution with
any advantages from rolling over all or part of the distribution. However, if you roll over any part of the lump-sum distribution, you can’t use the Form 4972 special tax treatment for any part of the distribution.
Contributions you made to your employer's plan.
You can roll over a distribution of voluntary deductible employee contributions (DECs) you made to your employer's
plan. Prior to January 1, 1987, employees could make and
deduct these contributions to certain qualified employers'
plans and government plans. These aren’t the same as an
Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

Property and cash received in a distribution. If you
receive both property and cash in an eligible rollover distribution, you can roll over part or all of the property, part or
all of the cash, or any combination of the two that you
choose.
The same property (or sales proceeds) must be
rolled over. If you receive property in an eligible rollover
distribution from a qualified retirement plan, you can’t keep
the property and contribute cash to a traditional IRA in
place of the property. You must either roll over the property
or sell it and roll over the proceeds, as explained next.
Sale of property received in a distribution from a
qualified plan. Instead of rolling over a distribution of
property other than cash, you can sell all or part of the
property and roll over the amount you receive from the
sale (the proceeds) into a traditional IRA. You can’t keep
the property and substitute your own funds for property
you received.
Example. You receive a total distribution from your employer's plan consisting of $10,000 cash and $15,000
worth of property. You decide to keep the property. You
can roll over to a traditional IRA the $10,000 cash received, but you can’t roll over an additional $15,000 representing the value of the property you choose not to sell.
Treatment of gain or loss. If you sell the distributed
property and roll over all the proceeds into a traditional
IRA, no gain or loss is recognized. The sale proceeds (including any increase in value) are treated as part of the
distribution and aren’t included in your gross income.
Example. On September 6, you received a lump-sum
distribution from your employer's retirement plan of
Traditional IRAs

27

$50,000 in cash and $50,000 in stock. The stock wasn’t
stock of your employer. On September 24, you sold the
stock for $60,000. On October 6, you rolled over $110,000
in cash ($50,000 from the original distribution and $60,000
from the sale of stock). You don’t include the $10,000 gain
from the sale of stock as part of your income because you
rolled over the entire amount into a traditional IRA.
Note: Special rules may apply to distributions of employer securities. For more information, see Figuring the
Taxable Amount under Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments
in Pub. 575.
Partial rollover. If you received both cash and property,
or just property, but didn’t roll over the entire distribution,
see Rollovers in Pub. 575.
Life insurance contract. You can’t roll over a life insurance contract from a qualified plan into a traditional IRA.
Distributions received by a surviving spouse. If you
receive an eligible rollover distribution (defined earlier)
from your deceased spouse's eligible retirement plan (defined earlier), you can roll over part or all of it into a traditional IRA. You can also roll over all or any part of a distribution of DECs.
Distributions under divorce or similar proceedings
(alternate payees). If you are the spouse or former
spouse of an employee and you receive a distribution from
a qualified retirement plan as a result of divorce or similar
proceedings, you may be able to roll over all or part of it
into a traditional IRA. To qualify, the distribution must be:

• One that would have been an eligible rollover distribution (defined earlier) if it had been made to the employee, and

• Made under a qualified domestic relations order.
Qualified domestic relations order. A domestic relations order is a judgment, decree, or order (including approval of a property settlement agreement) that is issued
under the domestic relations law of a state. A “qualified
domestic relations order” gives to an alternate payee (a
spouse, former spouse, child, or dependent of a participant in a retirement plan) the right to receive all or part of
the benefits that would be payable to a participant under
the plan. The order requires certain specific information,
and it can’t alter the amount or form of the benefits of the
plan.
Tax treatment if all of an eligible distribution isn’t
rolled over. Any part of an eligible rollover distribution
that you keep is taxable in the year you receive it. If you
don’t roll over any of it, special rules for lump-sum distributions may apply. See Lump-Sum Distributions under Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments in Pub. 575. The 10% additional tax on early distributions, discussed later under
What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional Taxes, doesn’t
apply.
Keogh plans and rollovers. If you are self-employed,
you are generally treated as an employee for rollover purposes. Consequently, if you receive an eligible rollover dis28

Chapter 1

tribution from a Keogh plan (a qualified plan with at least
one self-employed participant), you can roll over all or part
of the distribution (including a lump-sum distribution) into
a traditional IRA. For information on lump-sum distributions, see Lump-Sum Distributions under Taxation of Nonperiodic Payments in Pub. 575.
More information. For more information about Keogh
plans, see chapter 4 of Pub. 560.
Distribution from a tax-sheltered annuity. If you receive an eligible rollover distribution from a tax-sheltered
annuity plan (section 403(b) plan), you can roll it over into
a traditional IRA.
Receipt of property other than money. If you receive property other than money, you can sell the property
and roll over the proceeds as discussed earlier.
Rollover from bond purchase plan. If you redeem retirement bonds that were distributed to you under a qualified bond purchase plan, you can roll over tax free into a
traditional IRA the part of the amount you receive that is
more than your basis in the retirement bonds.
Reporting rollovers from employer plans. Enter the
total distribution (before income tax or other deductions
were withheld) on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR,
line 5a. This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form
1099-R. From this amount, subtract any contributions
(usually shown in box 5 of Form 1099-R) that were taxable
to you when made. From that result, subtract the amount
that was rolled over either directly or within 60 days of receiving the distribution. Enter the remaining amount, even
if zero, on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b. Also,
check the box on line 5c for rollovers of Form 1040,
1040-SR, or 1040-NR. See your tax return instructions.

Transfers Incident to Divorce
If an interest in a traditional IRA is transferred from your
spouse or former spouse to you by a divorce or separate
maintenance decree or a written document related to such
a decree, the interest in the IRA, starting from the date of
the transfer, is treated as your IRA. The transfer is tax free.
For information about transfers of interests in employer
plans, see Distributions under divorce or similar proceedings (alternate payees) under Rollover From Employer's
Plan Into an IRA, earlier.
Transfer methods. There are two commonly used methods of transferring IRA assets to a spouse or former
spouse. The methods are:

• Changing the name on the IRA, and
• Making a direct transfer of IRA assets.
Changing the name on the IRA. If all the assets are
to be transferred, you can make the transfer by changing
the name on the IRA from your name to the name of your
spouse or former spouse.
Direct transfer. Under this method, you direct the
trustee of the traditional IRA to transfer the affected assets
Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

directly to the trustee of a new or existing traditional IRA
set up in the name of your spouse or former spouse.
If your spouse or former spouse is allowed to keep their
portion of the IRA assets in your existing IRA, you can direct the trustee to transfer the assets you are permitted to
keep directly to a new or existing traditional IRA set up in
your name. The name on the IRA containing your spouse's or former spouse's portion of the assets would then
be changed to show their ownership.
If the transfer results in a change in the basis of
the traditional IRA of either spouse, both spouses
CAUTION must file Form 8606 and follow the directions in
the instructions for that form.

!

Converting From Any Traditional IRA
Into a Roth IRA
Allowable conversions. You can withdraw all or part of
the assets from a traditional IRA and reinvest them (within
60 days) in a Roth IRA. The amount that you withdraw and
timely contribute (convert) to the Roth IRA is called a conversion contribution. If properly (and timely) rolled over,
the 10% additional tax on early distributions won’t apply.
However, a part or all of the distribution from your traditional IRA may be included in gross income and subjected
to ordinary income tax.
You must roll over into the Roth IRA the same property
you received from the traditional IRA. You can roll over
part of the withdrawal into a Roth IRA and keep the rest of
it. The amount you keep will generally be taxable (except
for the part that is a return of nondeductible contributions)
and may be subject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions. See When Can You Withdraw or Use Assets,
later, for more information on distributions from traditional
IRAs and Early Distributions in Pub. 590-B for more information on the tax on early distributions.
Periodic distributions. If you started taking substantially equal periodic payments from a traditional IRA, you
can convert the amounts in the traditional IRA to a Roth
IRA and then continue the periodic payments. The 10%
additional tax on early distributions won’t apply even if the
distributions aren’t qualified distributions (as long as they
are part of a series of substantially equal periodic payments).
Required distributions. You can’t convert amounts that
must be distributed from your traditional IRA for a particular year (including the calendar year in which you reach
age 73) under the required distribution rules (discussed in
Pub. 590-B).
Income. You must include in your gross income distributions from a traditional IRA that you would have had to include in income if you hadn’t converted them into a Roth
IRA. These amounts are normally included in income on
your return for the year that you converted them from a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA.
You don’t include in gross income any part of a distribution from a traditional IRA that is a return of your basis, as
discussed under Are Distributions Taxable? in Pub. 590-B.
Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

If you must include any amount in your gross income, you may have to increase your withholding
CAUTION or make estimated tax payments. See Pub. 505.

!

Recharacterizations
You may be able to treat a contribution made to one type
of IRA as having been made to a different type of IRA.
This is called recharacterizing the contribution.
To recharacterize a contribution, you must generally
have the contribution transferred from the first IRA (the
one to which it was made) to the second IRA in a
trustee-to-trustee transfer. If the transfer is made by the
due date (including extensions) for your tax return for the
tax year for which the contribution was made, you can
elect to treat the contribution as having been originally
made to the second IRA instead of to the first IRA. If you
recharacterize your contribution, you must do all three of
the following.

• Include in the transfer any net income allocable to the
contribution. If there was a loss, the net income you
must transfer may be a negative amount.

• Report the recharacterization on your tax return for the
year during which the contribution was made.

• Treat the contribution as having been made to the second IRA on the date that it was actually made to the
first IRA.

No recharacterizations of conversions made in 2018
or later. A conversion of a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA,
and a rollover from any other eligible retirement plan to a
Roth IRA, made in tax years beginning after December
31, 2017, cannot be recharacterized as having been made
to a traditional IRA. If you made a conversion in the 2017
tax year, you had until the due date (including extensions)
for filing the return for that tax year to recharacterize it.
No deduction allowed. You can’t deduct the contribution
to the first IRA. Any net income you transfer with the recharacterized contribution is treated as earned in the second IRA. The contribution won’t be treated as having been
made to the second IRA to the extent any deduction was
allowed for the contribution to the first IRA.
Conversion by rollover from traditional to Roth IRA.
You receive a distribution from a traditional IRA in 1 tax
year. You then roll it over into a Roth IRA within 60 days of
the distribution from the traditional IRA but in the next
year. For recharacterization purposes, you would treat this
transaction as a contribution to the Roth IRA in the year of
the distribution from the traditional IRA.
Effect of previous tax-free transfers. If an amount has
been moved from one IRA to another in a tax-free transfer,
such as a rollover, you generally can’t recharacterize the
amount that was transferred. However, see Traditional IRA
mistakenly moved to SIMPLE IRA next.
Traditional IRA mistakenly moved to SIMPLE IRA.
If you mistakenly roll over or transfer an amount from a
Traditional IRAs

29

Worksheet 1-3. Determining the Amount of Net Income Due
to an IRA Contribution and Total Amount To
Be Recharacterized
1.
2.
3.

4.
5.
6.
7.

Enter the amount of your IRA contribution for 2026 to be recharacterized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the recharacterization (include any
distributions, transfers, or recharacterizations made while the contribution was in the
account) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the time the contribution being
recharacterized was made, including the amount of such contribution and any other
contributions, transfers, or recharacterizations made while the contribution was in the
account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Divide line 4 by line 3. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) . . . . . . 5.
Multiply line 1 by line 5. This is the net income attributable to the contribution to be
recharacterized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add lines 1 and 6. This is the amount of the IRA contribution plus the net income attributable
to it to be recharacterized . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

traditional IRA to a SIMPLE IRA, you can later recharacterize the amount as a contribution to another traditional
IRA.
Recharacterizing excess contributions. You can recharacterize only actual contributions. If you are applying
excess contributions for prior years as current contributions, you can recharacterize them only if the recharacterization would still be timely with respect to the tax year for
which the applied contributions were actually made.
Example. You contributed more than you were entitled
to in 2025. You can’t recharacterize the excess contributions you made in 2025 after April 15, 2026, because contributions after that date are no longer timely for 2025.
Recharacterizing employer contributions. You can’t
recharacterize employer contributions (including elective
deferrals) under a SEP arrangement or SIMPLE IRA plan
as contributions to another IRA. SEP arrangements are
discussed in chapter 2 of Pub. 560. SIMPLE plans are discussed in chapter 3 of Pub. 560.
Recharacterization not counted as rollover. The recharacterization of a contribution is not treated as a rollover for purposes of the 1-year waiting period described
earlier in this chapter under Rollover From One IRA Into
Another. This is true even if the contribution would have
been treated as a rollover contribution by the second IRA
if it had been made directly to the second IRA rather than
as a result of a recharacterization of a contribution to the
first IRA.

How Do You Recharacterize a Contribution?
To recharacterize a contribution, you must notify both the
trustee of the first IRA (the one to which the contribution
was actually made) and the trustee of the second IRA (the
one to which the contribution is being moved) that you
have elected to treat the contribution as having been
made to the second IRA rather than the first. You must
30

Keep for Your Records

Chapter 1

make the notifications by the date of the transfer. Only one
notification is required if both IRAs are maintained by the
same trustee. The notification(s) must include all of the following information.

• The type and amount of the contribution to the first
IRA that is to be recharacterized.

• The date on which the contribution was made to the
first IRA and the year for which it was made.

• A direction to the trustee of the first IRA to transfer in a
trustee-to-trustee transfer the amount of the contribution and any net income (or loss) allocable to the contribution to the trustee of the second IRA.

• The name of the trustee of the first IRA and the name
of the trustee of the second IRA.

• Any additional information needed to make the transfer.

In most cases, the net income you must transfer is determined by your IRA trustee or custodian. If you need to
determine the applicable net income on IRA contributions
made after 2025 that are recharacterized, use Worksheet
1-3. See Regulations section 1.408A-5 for more information.
Timing. The election to recharacterize and the transfer
must both take place on or before the due date (including
extensions) for filing your tax return for the tax year for
which the contribution was made to the first IRA.
Extension. Ordinarily, you must choose to recharacterize a contribution by the due date of the return or the
due date including extensions. However, if you miss this
deadline, you can still recharacterize a contribution if:

• Your return was timely filed for the year the choice
should have been made; and

• You take appropriate corrective action within 6 months

from the due date of your return, excluding extensions.
For returns due April 15, 2026, this period ends on

Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

October 15, 2026. When the date for doing any act for
tax purposes falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the due date is delayed until the next business
day.
Appropriate corrective action consists of:

• Notifying the trustee(s) of your intent to recharacterize,
• Providing the trustee with all necessary information,
and

• Having the trustee transfer the contribution.
Once this is done, you must amend your return to show
the recharacterization. You have until the regular due date
for amending a return to do this. Report the recharacterization on the amended return and write “Filed pursuant to
section 301.9100-2” on the return. You can file your amended return electronically if you are amending your tax return for the current or 2 prior tax periods and your original
return was filed electronically. Returns filed before these 3
tax years or tax returns filed by paper must be amended
by filing an amended return by paper. See the Instructions
for Form 1040-X for more information.
Decedent. The election to recharacterize can be
made on behalf of a deceased IRA owner by the executor,
the administrator, or another person responsible for filing
the decedent's final income tax return.
Election can’t be changed. After the transfer has taken
place, you can’t change your election to recharacterize.
Same trustee. Recharacterizations made with the same
trustee can be made by redesignating the first IRA as the
second IRA, rather than transferring the account balance.

Reporting a Recharacterization
If you elect to recharacterize a contribution to one IRA as a
contribution to another IRA, you must report the recharacterization on your tax return as directed by Form 8606 and
its instructions. You must treat the contribution as having
been made to the second IRA.
More than one IRA. If you have more than one IRA, figure the amount to be recharacterized only on the account
from which you withdraw the contribution.

When Can You Withdraw or
Use Assets?
You can withdraw or use your traditional IRA assets at any
time. However, a 10% additional tax generally applies if
you withdraw or use IRA assets before you reach age
591/2. This is explained under Age 591/2 Rule under Early
Distributions in Pub. 590-B.

Contributions Returned Before Due
Date of Return
If you made IRA contributions in 2025, you can withdraw
them tax free by the due date of your return. If you have an
extension of time to file your return, you can withdraw
them tax free by the extended due date. You can do this if,
for each contribution you withdraw, both of the following
conditions apply.

• You didn’t take a deduction for the contribution.
• You withdraw any interest or other income earned on

the contribution. You can take into account any loss on
the contribution while it was in the IRA when calculating the amount that must be withdrawn. If there was a
loss, the net income earned on the contribution may
be a negative amount.

Note: If you timely filed your 2025 tax return without
withdrawing a contribution that you made in 2025, you can
still have the contribution returned to you within 6 months
of the due date of your 2025 tax return, excluding extensions. If you do, file an amended return with “Filed pursuant to section 301.9100-2” written at the top. Report any
related earnings on the amended return and include an
explanation of the withdrawal. Make any other necessary
changes on the amended return (for example, if you reported the contributions as excess contributions on your original return, include an amended Form 5329 reflecting that
the withdrawn contributions are no longer treated as having been contributed).
In most cases, the net income you must withdraw is determined by the IRA trustee or custodian. If you need to
determine the applicable net income on IRA contributions
made after 2025 that are returned to you, use Worksheet
1-4. See Regulations section 1.408-11 for more information.
Example. On May 2, 2026, when your IRA is worth
$4,800, you make a $1,600 regular contribution to your
IRA. You request that $400 of the May 2, 2026, contribution be returned to you. On February 2, 2027, when the
IRA is worth $7,600, the IRA trustee distributes to you the
$400 plus net income attributable to the contribution. No
other contributions have been made to the IRA for 2026
and no distributions have been made.
The adjusted opening balance is $6,400 ($4,800 +
$1,600) and the adjusted closing balance is $7,600. The
net income due to the May 2, 2026, contribution is $75
($400 x ($7,600 – $6,400) ÷ $6,400). Therefore, the total
to be distributed on February 2, 2027, is $475. This is
shown on Worksheet 1-4. Example—Illustrated.

You can generally make a tax-free withdrawal of contributions if you do it before the due date for filing your tax
return for the year in which you made them. This means
that, even if you are under age 591/2, the 10% additional
tax may not apply. These withdrawals are explained later.
Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

31

Last-in first-out rule. If you made more than one regular
contribution for the year, your last contribution is considered to be the one that is returned to you first.

Earnings Includible in Income
You must include in income any earnings on the contributions you withdraw. Include the earnings in income for the
year in which you made the contributions, not the year in
which you withdraw them.
Generally, except for any part of a withdrawal that
is a return of nondeductible contributions (basis),
CAUTION any withdrawal of your contributions after the due
date (or extended due date) of your return will be treated
as a taxable distribution. Excess contributions can also be
recovered tax free as discussed under What Acts Result
in Penalties or Additional Taxes, later.

!

Early Distributions Tax

interest or other income must be reported on Form 5329
and, unless the distribution qualifies for an exception to
the age 591/2 rule, it will be subject to this tax. See Early
Distributions under What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional Taxes? in Pub. 590-B.

Excess Contributions Tax
If any part of these contributions is an excess contribution
for 2024, it is subject to a 6% excise tax. You won’t have to
pay the 6% tax if any 2024 excess contribution was withdrawn by April 15, 2025 (including extensions), and if any
2025 excess contribution is withdrawn by April 15, 2026
(including extensions). See Excess Contributions under
What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional Taxes, later.
You may be able to treat a contribution made to

TIP one type of IRA as having been made to a differ-

ent type of IRA. This is called recharacterizing the
contribution. See Recharacterizations, earlier, for more information.

The 10% additional tax on distributions made before you
reach age 591/2 doesn’t apply to these tax-free withdrawals of your contributions. However, the distribution of

Worksheet 1-4. Determining the Amount of Net Income Due
to an IRA Contribution and Total Amount To
Be Withdrawn From the IRA
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Enter the amount of your IRA contribution for 2026 to be returned to you . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the removal of the contribution,
plus the amount of any distributions, transfers, and recharacterizations made while the
contribution was in the IRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately before the contribution was made, plus the
amount of such contribution and any other contributions, transfers, and recharacterizations
made while the contribution was in the IRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Divide line 4 by line 3. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) . . . . . . 5.
Multiply line 1 by line 5. This is the net income attributable to the contribution to be
returned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add lines 1 and 6. This is the amount of the IRA contribution plus the net income attributable
to it to be returned to you . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

Worksheet 1-4. Example—Illustrated
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

32

Keep for Your Records

Keep for Your Records

Enter the amount of your IRA contribution for 2026 to be returned to you . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the removal of the contribution,
plus the amount of any distributions, transfers, and recharacterizations made while the
contribution was in the IRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately before the contribution was made, plus the
amount of such contribution and any other contributions, transfers, and recharacterizations
made while the contribution was in the IRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Divide line 4 by line 3. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) . . . . . . 5.
Multiply line 1 by line 5. This is the net income attributable to the contribution to be
returned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add lines 1 and 6. This is the amount of the IRA contribution plus the net income attributable
to it to be returned to you . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

400
7,600
6,400
1,200
0.1875
75
475

Publication 590-A (2025)

What Acts Result in Penalties
or Additional Taxes?
The tax advantages of using traditional IRAs for retirement
savings can be offset by additional taxes and penalties if
you don’t follow the rules. There are excise taxes and
other negative tax consequences for using your IRA funds
in prohibited transactions. There are also additional taxes
for the following activities.

• Investing in collectibles.
• Making excess contributions.
• Taking early distributions. See Pub. 590-B.
• Allowing excess amounts to accumulate (failing to
take required distributions). See Pub. 590-B.

• Having unrelated business income.
There are penalties for overstating the amount of nondeductible contributions and for failure to file Form 8606, if
required.
This chapter discusses those acts that you should
avoid and the additional taxes and other costs, including
loss of IRA status, that apply if you don’t avoid those acts.

Prohibited Transactions
Generally, a prohibited transaction is any improper use of
your traditional IRA account or annuity by you, your beneficiary, or any disqualified person.
Disqualified persons include your fiduciary and members of your family (spouse, ancestor, lineal descendant,
and any spouse of a lineal descendant).
The following are some examples of prohibited transactions with a traditional IRA.

• Borrowing money from it.
• Selling property to it.
• Using it as security for a loan.
• Buying property for personal use (present or future)
with IRA funds.

If your IRA is invested in nonpublicly traded assets or assets that you directly control, the risk of
CAUTION engaging in a prohibited transaction in connection
with your account may be increased.

!

Fiduciary. For these purposes, a fiduciary includes anyone who does any of the following.

• Exercises any discretionary authority or discretionary

control in managing your IRA or exercises any authority or control in managing or disposing of its assets.

• Provides investment advice to your IRA for a fee, or
has any authority or responsibility to do so.

• Has any discretionary authority or discretionary responsibility in administering your IRA.

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

Effect on an IRA account. Generally, if you or your beneficiary engages in a prohibited transaction in connection
with your traditional IRA account at any time during the
year, the account stops being an IRA as of the first day of
that year.
However, if you own more than one IRA, each IRA is
treated as a separate account, and loss of IRA status only
affects that IRA that participated in the prohibited transaction.
Effect on you or your beneficiary. If your account stops
being an IRA because you or your beneficiary engaged in
a prohibited transaction, the account is treated as distributing all its assets to you at their fair market values on the
first day of the year. If the total of those values is more
than your basis in the IRA, you will have a taxable gain
that is includible in your income. For information on figuring your gain and reporting it in income, see Are Distributions Taxable? in Pub. 590-B. The distribution may be subject to additional taxes or penalties.
Borrowing on an annuity contract. If you borrow
money against your traditional IRA annuity contract, you
must include in your gross income the fair market value of
the annuity contract as of the first day of your tax year. You
may have to pay the 10% additional tax on early distributions discussed in Pub. 590-B.
Pledging an account as security. If you use a part of
your traditional IRA account as security for a loan, that
part is treated as a distribution and is included in your
gross income. You may have to pay the 10% additional tax
on early distributions discussed in Pub. 590-B.
Trust account set up by an employer or an employee
association. Your account or annuity doesn’t lose its IRA
treatment if your employer or the employee association
with whom you have your traditional IRA engages in a prohibited transaction.
Owner participation. If you participate in the prohibited transaction with your employer or the association, your
account is no longer treated as an IRA.
Taxes on prohibited transactions. If someone other
than the owner or beneficiary of a traditional IRA engages
in a prohibited transaction, that person may be liable for
certain taxes. In general, there is a 15% tax on the amount
involved in the prohibited transaction and a 100% additional tax if the transaction isn’t corrected.
Loss of IRA status. If the traditional IRA ceases to be
an IRA because of a prohibited transaction by you or your
beneficiary, you or your beneficiary isn’t liable for these excise taxes. However, you or your beneficiary may have to
pay other taxes, as discussed under Effect on you or your
beneficiary, earlier.

Exempt Transactions
The Department of Labor (DOL) has authority to grant administrative exemptions from the prohibited transaction
provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act (ERISA) and the Internal Revenue Code for a class of
Traditional IRAs

33

transactions or for individual transactions. In order to grant
an administrative exemption, the DOL must make the following three determinations.
1. The exemption must be administratively feasible.
2. In the interest of the plan and its participants.
3. Protective of the rights of plan participants and beneficiaries.
For additional information on prohibited transaction exemptions, see the Exemptions page on the Department of
Labor website. For information on filing and the processing of prohibited transactions exemption applications, see
Procedures Governing the Filing and Processing of
Prohibited Transaction Exemption Applications.
The following two types of transactions aren’t prohibited
transactions if they meet the requirements that follow.

• Payments of cash, property, or other consideration by
the trustee of your traditional IRA to you (or members
of your family).

• Your receipt of services at reduced or no cost from the
bank where your traditional IRA is established or
maintained.

Payments of cash, property, or other consideration.
Even if a trustee makes payments to you or your family,
there is no prohibited transaction if all three of the following requirements are met.
1. The payments are for establishing a traditional IRA or
for making additional contributions to it.
2. The IRA is established solely to benefit you, your
spouse, and your or your spouse's beneficiaries.
3. During the year, the total fair market value of the payments you receive isn’t more than:
a. $10 for IRA deposits of less than $5,000, or
b. $20 for IRA deposits of $5,000 or more.
If the consideration is group-term life insurance, requirements (1) and (3) don’t apply if no more than $5,000 of the
face value of the insurance is based on a dollar-for-dollar
basis on the assets in your IRA.
Services received at reduced or no cost. Even if a
trustee provides services at reduced or no cost, there is
no prohibited transaction if all of the following requirements are met.

• The traditional IRA qualifying you to receive the services is established and maintained for the benefit of
you, your spouse, and your or your spouse's beneficiaries.

• The bank itself can legally offer the services.
• The services are provided in the ordinary course of

plan) deposit balance equal to the lowest qualifying
balance for any other type of account.

• The rate of return on a traditional IRA investment that

qualifies isn’t less than the return on an identical investment that could have been made at the same time
at the same branch of the bank by a customer who
isn’t eligible for (or doesn’t receive) these services.

Investment in Collectibles
If your traditional IRA invests in collectibles, the amount invested is considered distributed to you in the year invested. You may have to pay the 10% additional tax on early
distributions discussed in Pub. 590-B.
Any amounts that were considered to be distributed
when the investment in the collectible was made, and
which were included in your income at that time, aren’t included in your income when the collectible is actually distributed from your IRA.
Collectibles. These include:

• Artworks,
• Rugs,
• Antiques,
• Metals,
• Gems,
• Stamps,
• Coins,
• Alcoholic beverages, and
• Certain other tangible personal property.
Exception. Your IRA can invest in one, one-half,
one-quarter, or one-tenth ounce U.S. gold coins, or
one-ounce silver coins minted by the Treasury Department. It can also invest in certain platinum coins and certain gold, silver, palladium, and platinum bullion.

Unrelated Business Income
An IRA is subject to tax on unrelated business income if it
carries on an unrelated trade or business. An unrelated
trade or business means any trade or business regularly
carried on by the IRA or by a partnership of which it is a
member. If the IRA has $1,000 or more of unrelated trade
or business gross income, the IRA trustee is required to
file a Form 990-T, Exempt Organization Business Income
Tax Return. The Form 990-T must be filed by the 15th day
of the 4th month after the end of the IRA’s tax year. See
Pub. 598, Tax on Unrelated Business Income of Exempt
Organizations, for more information.

business by the bank (or a bank affiliate) to customers
who qualify but don’t maintain an IRA (or a Keogh
plan).

• The determination, for a traditional IRA, of who quali-

fies for these services is based on an IRA (or a Keogh

34

Chapter 1

Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Excess Contributions

• You withdraw the interest or other income earned on

Generally, an excess contribution is the amount contributed to your traditional IRAs for the year that is more than
the smaller of:

You can take into account any loss on the contribution
while it was in the IRA when calculating the amount that
must be withdrawn. If there was a loss, the net income you
must withdraw may be a negative amount.
In most cases, the net income you must transfer will be
determined by your IRA trustee or custodian. If you need
to determine the applicable net income you need to withdraw, you can use the same method that was used on
Worksheet 1-3.

• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• Your taxable compensation for the year.
The taxable compensation limit applies whether your
contributions are deductible or nondeductible.
An excess contribution could be the result of your contribution, your spouse's contribution, your employer's contribution, or an improper rollover contribution. If your employer makes contributions under a SEP arrangement on
your behalf to a SEP IRA, see chapter 2 of Pub. 560.

Tax on Excess Contributions
In general, if the excess contributions for a year aren’t
withdrawn by the date your return for the year is due (including extensions), you are subject to a 6% tax. You must
pay the 6% tax each year on excess amounts that remain
in your traditional IRA at the end of your tax year. The tax
can’t be more than 6% of the combined value of all your
IRAs as of the end of your tax year.
The additional tax is figured on Form 5329. For information on filing Form 5329, see Reporting Additional Taxes,
later.
Example. For 2025, you are 45 years old and single.
Your compensation is $31,000 and you contributed $7,500
to your traditional IRA. You have made an excess contribution to your IRA of $500 ($7,500 minus the $7,000 limit).
The contribution earned $5 interest in 2025 and $6 interest in 2026 before the due date of the return, including extensions. You don’t withdraw the $500 or the interest it
earned by the due date of your return, including extensions.
You figure your additional tax for 2025 by multiplying
the excess contribution ($500) shown on Form 5329,
line 16, by 0.06, giving you an additional tax liability of
$30. You enter the tax on Form 5329, line 17, and on
Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8. See the filled-in Form
5329, later.

Excess Contributions Withdrawn by Due
Date of Return
You won’t have to pay the 6% tax if you withdraw an excess contribution made during a tax year and you also
withdraw any interest or other income earned on the excess contribution. You must complete your withdrawal by
the date your tax return for that year is due, including extensions.
How to treat withdrawn contributions. Don’t include in
your gross income an excess contribution that you withdraw from your traditional IRA before your tax return is due
if both of the following conditions are met.

• No deduction was allowed for the excess contribution.
Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

the excess contribution.

If you timely filed your 2025 tax return without withdrawing a contribution that you made in 2025, you can still have
the contribution returned to you within 6 months of the due
date of your 2025 tax return, excluding extensions. If you
do, file an amended return with “Filed pursuant to section
301.9100-2” written at the top. Report any related earnings on the amended return and include an explanation of
the withdrawal. Make any other necessary changes on the
amended return (for example, if you reported the contributions as excess contributions on your original return, include an amended Form 5329 reflecting that the withdrawn contributions are no longer treated as having been
contributed).
How to treat withdrawn interest or other income. You
must include in your gross income the interest or other income that was earned on the excess contribution. Report
it on your return for the year in which the excess contribution was made. Your withdrawal of interest or other income
may be subject to an additional 10% tax on early distributions discussed in Pub. 590-B.
Beginning on or after December 29, 2022, the 10% additional tax will not apply to your withdrawal of interest or
other income, if withdrawn on or before the due date (including extensions) of the income tax return. See Pub.
590-B for more information.
Form 1099-R. You will receive Form 1099-R indicating
the amount of the withdrawal. If the excess contribution
was made in a previous tax year, the form will indicate the
year in which the earnings are taxable.
Example. Maria, age 35, made an excess contribution
in 2025 of $1,000, which she withdrew by April 15, 2026,
the due date of her return. At the same time, she also withdrew the $50 income that was earned on the $1,000. She
must include the $50 in her gross income for 2025 (the
year in which the excess contribution was made).
Maria doesn’t have to report the excess contribution as
income or pay the 6% additional tax because she withdrew the excess contribution by the due date of her return.
Maria receives a Form 1099-R showing that the earnings
are taxable for 2025.

Excess Contributions Withdrawn After Due
Date of Return
In general, you must include all distributions (withdrawals)
from your traditional IRA in your gross income. However, if
the following conditions are met, you can withdraw excess
Traditional IRAs

35

contributions from your IRA and not include the amount
withdrawn in your gross income.

apply it to a later year if the contributions for that later year
are less than the maximum allowed for that year.

for 2025 to your IRA weren’t more than $7,000 ($8,000
if you are age 50 or older).

You can deduct excess contributions for previous years
that are still in your traditional IRA. The amount you can
deduct this year is the lesser of the following two amounts.

• Total contributions (other than rollover contributions)

• You didn’t take a deduction for the excess contribution
being withdrawn.

The withdrawal can take place at any time, even after the
due date, including extensions, for filing your tax return for
the year.
Excess contribution deducted in an earlier year. If
you deducted an excess contribution in an earlier year for
which the total contributions weren’t more than the maximum deductible amount for that year (see the following table), you can still remove the excess from your traditional
IRA and not include it in your gross income. To do this, file
Form 1040-X for that year and don’t deduct the excess
contribution on the amended return. Generally, you can
file an amended return within 3 years after you filed your
return, or 2 years from the time the tax was paid, whichever is later.
Year(s)

Contribution limit

Contribution limit
if age 50 or older
at the end of the
year

2024

$7,000

$8,000

2023

$6,500

$7,500

2019 through 2022

$6,000

$7,000

2013 through 2018

$5,500

$6,500

2008 through 2012

$5,000

$6,000

2006 or 2007

$4,000

$5,000

2005

$4,000

$4,500

2002 through 2004

$3,000

$3,500

1997 through 2001

$2,000

—

before 1997

$2,250

—

Excess due to incorrect rollover information. If an excess contribution in your traditional IRA is the result of a
rollover and the excess occurred because the information
the plan was required to give you was incorrect, you can
withdraw the excess contribution. The limits mentioned
above are increased by the amount of the excess that is
due to the incorrect information. You will have to amend
your return for the year in which the excess occurred to
correct the reporting of the rollover amounts in that year.
Don’t include in your gross income the part of the excess
contribution caused by the incorrect information.

Deducting an Excess Contribution in a Later
Year
You can’t apply an excess contribution to an earlier year
even if you contributed less than the maximum amount allowable for the earlier year. However, you may be able to

36

Chapter 1

• Your maximum IRA deduction for this year minus any
amounts contributed to your traditional IRAs for this
year.

• The total excess contributions in your IRAs at the beginning of this year.

This method lets you avoid making a withdrawal. It
doesn’t, however, let you avoid the 6% tax on any excess
contributions remaining at the end of a tax year.
To figure the amount of excess contributions for previous years that you can deduct this year, see Worksheet
1-5.
Worksheet 1-5. Excess Contributions Deductible This
Year
Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess
contributions from prior years you can deduct this year.
1. Maximum IRA deduction for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. IRA contributions for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If zero or less,
enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Excess contributions in IRA at beginning of
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Enter the lesser of line 3 or line 4. This is
the amount of excess contributions for
previous years that you can deduct this
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

Example. You were entitled to contribute to your traditional IRA and deduct $1,000 in 2024 and $1,500 in 2025
(the amounts of your taxable compensation for these
years). For 2024, you contributed $1,400 but could deduct
only $1,000. In 2024, $400 is an excess contribution subject to the 6% tax. However, you wouldn’t have to pay the
6% tax if you withdrew the excess (including any earnings)
before the due date of your 2024 return. Because you
didn’t withdraw the excess, you owe excise tax of $24 for
2024. To avoid the excise tax for 2025, you can correct the
$400 excess amount from 2024 in 2025 if your actual contributions are only $1,100 for 2024 (the allowable deductible contribution of $1,500 minus the $400 excess from
2024 you want to treat as a deductible contribution in
2025). You can deduct $1,500 in 2025 (the $1,100 actually contributed plus the $400 excess contribution from
2024). This is shown on Worksheet 1-5. Example—Illustrated.

Traditional IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Form

5329

Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Additional Taxes on Qualified Plans
(Including IRAs) and Other Tax-Favored Accounts

OMB No. 1545-0074

2025

Attach to Form 1040, 1040-SR, 1040-NR, or 1041.
Go to www.irs.gov/Form5329 for instructions and the latest information.

Attachment
Sequence No. 29
Your social security number

Name of individual subject to additional tax. If married filing jointly, see instructions.

Paul Jones

003-00-0000
Home address (number and street), or P.O. box if mail is not delivered to your home

Fill in Your Address Only
if You Are Filing This
Form by Itself and Not
With Your Tax Return

Apt. no.

If this is an amended
return, check here

City, town or post office, state, and ZIP code. If you have a foreign address, also complete the spaces below. See instructions.
Foreign country name

Foreign province/state/county

Foreign postal code

If you only owe the additional 10% tax on the full amount of the early distributions, you may be able to report this tax directly on
Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8, without filing Form 5329. See instructions.

Part I

Additional Tax on Early Distributions. Complete this part if you took a taxable distribution (other than a qualified disaster
recovery distribution) before you reached age 59½ from a qualified retirement plan (including an IRA) or modified endowment contract
(unless you are reporting this tax directly on Schedule 2 (Form 1040)—see above). You may also have to complete this part to indicate
that you qualify for an exception to the additional tax on early distributions or for certain Roth IRA distributions. See instructions.

1
2
3
4

Early distributions includible in income (see instructions). For Roth IRA distributions, see instructions .
Early distributions included on line 1 that are not subject to the additional tax (see instructions).
. . . . . . . . . .
Enter the appropriate exception number from the instructions:
Amount subject to additional tax. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Additional tax. Enter 10% (0.10) of line 3. Include this amount on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8 . .
Caution: If any part of the amount on line 3 was a distribution from a SIMPLE IRA, you may have to
include 25% of that amount on line 4 instead of 10%. See instructions.

Part II

1
2
3
4

Additional Tax on Certain Distributions From Education Accounts and ABLE Accounts. Complete this part
if you included an amount in income, on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8z, from a Coverdell education savings account
(ESA) or a qualified tuition program (QTP), or on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8q, from an ABLE account.

5
6
7
8

Distributions included in income from a Coverdell ESA, a QTP, or an ABLE account . . . . . .
5
Distributions included on line 5 that are not subject to the additional tax (see instructions) . . . .
6
Amount subject to additional tax. Subtract line 6 from line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7
Additional tax. Enter 10% (0.10) of line 7. Include this amount on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8 . .
8
Part III
Additional Tax on Excess Contributions to Traditional IRAs. Complete this part if you contributed more to your
traditional IRAs (which include your traditional SEP IRAs and traditional SIMPLE IRAs) for 2025 than is allowable or you
had an amount on line 17 of your 2024 Form 5329.
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

Enter your excess contributions from line 16 of your 2024 Form 5329. See instructions. If zero, go to line 15
If your traditional IRA contributions for 2025 are less than your maximum
allowable contribution, see instructions. Otherwise, enter -0- . . . . . .
10
2025 traditional IRA distributions included in income (see instructions) . . .
11
2025 distributions of prior year excess contributions to traditional IRAs (see
instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12
Add lines 10, 11, and 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prior year excess contributions. Subtract line 13 from line 9. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . .
Excess contributions for 2025 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total excess contributions. Add lines 14 and 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

20
21
22
23
24
25

13
14
15
16

500
500

Additional tax. Enter 6% (0.06) of the smaller of line 16 or the value of your traditional IRAs on December 31,
2025 (including 2025 contributions made in 2026). Include this amount on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8 . .

Part IV

18
19

9

17
30
Additional Tax on Excess Contributions to Roth IRAs. Complete this part if you contributed more to your Roth
IRAs (which include your Roth SEP IRAs and Roth SIMPLE IRAs) for 2025 than is allowable or you had an amount on line
25 of your 2024 Form 5329.

Enter your excess contributions from line 24 of your 2024 Form 5329. See instructions. If zero, go to line 23
If your Roth IRA contributions for 2025 are less than your maximum allowable
contribution, see instructions. Otherwise, enter -0- . . . . . . . . .
19
2025 distributions from your Roth IRAs (see instructions) . . . . . . .
20
Add lines 19 and 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Prior year excess contributions. Subtract line 21 from line 18. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . .
Excess contributions for 2025 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Total excess contributions. Add lines 22 and 23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Additional tax. Enter 6% (0.06) of the smaller of line 24 or the value of your Roth IRAs on December 31, 2025
(including 2025 contributions made in 2026). Include this amount on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8 . . .

For Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see your tax return instructions.

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 1

Cat. No. 13329Q

Traditional IRAs

18

21
22
23
24
25

Form 5329 (2025) Created 6/12/25

37

Worksheet 1-5. Example—Illustrated
Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess
contributions from prior years you can deduct this year.
1. Maximum IRA deduction for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

1,500

2. IRA contributions for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

1,100

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If zero or less,
enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

400

4. Excess contributions in IRA at beginning of
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

400

5. Enter the lesser of line 3 or line 4. This is
the amount of excess contributions for
previous years that you can deduct this
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

400

Closed tax year. A special rule applies if you incorrectly
deducted part of the excess contribution in a closed tax
year (one for which the period to assess a tax deficiency
has expired). The amount allowable as a traditional IRA
deduction for a later correction year (the year you contribute less than the allowable amount) must be reduced by
the amount of the excess contribution deducted in the
closed year.
To figure the amount of excess contributions for previous years that you can deduct this year if you incorrectly
deducted part of the excess contribution in a closed tax
year, see Worksheet 1-6.
Worksheet 1-6. Excess Contributions Deductible This
Year if Any Were Deducted in a
Closed Tax Year
Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess
contributions for prior years that you can deduct this year if
you incorrectly deducted excess contributions in a closed
tax year.

Reporting Additional Taxes
Generally, you must use Form 5329 to report the tax on
excess contributions, early distributions, and excess accumulations.
Filing a tax return. If you must file an individual income
tax return, complete Form 5329 and attach it to your Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. Enter the total additional
taxes due on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8.
Not filing a tax return. If you don’t have to file a individual income tax return, but do have to pay one of the additional taxes mentioned earlier, file the completed Form
5329 with the IRS at the time and place you would have
filed Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. If you file Form
5329 by itself, then it cannot be filed electronically. Be sure
to include your address on page 1 and your signature and
date on page 3. For payment options, see the Instructions
for Form 1040 or the Instructions for Form 1040-NR, or go
to IRS.gov/Payments to see all your payment options.
Form 5329 not required. You don’t have to use Form
5329 if either of the following situations exists.

• Distribution code 1 is correctly shown in box 7 of

Forms 1099-R. If distribution code 1 is correctly shown
in box 7 of all your Forms 1099-R and you owe the additional tax on the full amount shown on each Form
1099-R, you don’t have to file Form 5239. Instead, see
the instructions for Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8, in
the Instructions for Form 1040, or the Instructions for
Form 1040-NR, for how to report the 10% additional
tax directly on that line.

• If you rolled over part or all of a distribution from a

qualified retirement plan, the part rolled over isn’t subject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions.
See the instructions for Form 1040, or 1040-NR, lines
4a, 4b, and 4c or lines 5a, 5b, and 5c, for how to report
the rollover.

1. Maximum IRA deduction for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. IRA contributions for the current
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

2.

3. If line 2 is less than line 1, enter any excess
contributions that were deducted in a
closed tax year. Otherwise, enter -0- . . . . .

3.

Roth IRAs

4. Subtract line 3 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Subtract line 2 from line 4. If zero or less,
enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Excess contributions in IRA at beginning of
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7. Enter the lesser of line 5 or line 6. This is
the amount of excess contributions for
previous years that you can deduct this
year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

38

Reminders
Deemed IRAs. For plan years beginning after 2002, a
qualified employer plan (retirement plan) can maintain a
separate account or annuity under the plan (a deemed
IRA) to receive voluntary employee contributions. If the
separate account or annuity otherwise meets the requirements of an IRA, it will be subject only to IRA rules. An
employee's account can be treated as a traditional IRA or
a Roth IRA.
Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

For this purpose, a “qualified employer plan” includes:

• A qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus
plan (section 401(a) plan);

• A qualified employee annuity plan (section 403(a)
plan);

• A tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan); and
• A deferred compensation plan (section 457 plan)
maintained by a state, a political subdivision of a state,
or an agency or instrumentality of a state or political
subdivision of a state.

Designated Roth accounts. Designated Roth accounts
are separate accounts under section 401(k), 403(b), or
457(b) plans that accept elective deferrals that are referred to as “Roth contributions.” These elective deferrals are
included in your income, but qualified distributions from
these accounts aren’t included in your income. Designated Roth accounts aren’t IRAs and shouldn’t be confused
with Roth IRAs. Contributions, up to their respective limits,
can be made to Roth IRAs and designated Roth accounts
according to your eligibility to participate. A contribution to
one doesn’t impact your eligibility to contribute to the
other. See Pub. 575 for more information on designated
Roth accounts.

You can open a Roth IRA at any time. However, the time
for making contributions for any year is limited. See When
Can You Make Contributions, later, under Can You Contribute to a Roth IRA.

Can You Contribute to a Roth
IRA?
Generally, you can contribute to a Roth IRA if you have
taxable compensation (defined later) and your modified
AGI (defined later) is less than:

• $246,000 for married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse;

• $165,000 for single, head of household, or married filing separately and you didn’t live with your spouse at
any time during the year; and

• $10,000 for married filing separately and you lived with
your spouse at any time during the year.

Introduction

You may be able to claim a credit for contributions

Regardless of your age, you may be able to establish and
make nondeductible contributions to an individual retirement plan called a Roth IRA.
Contributions not reported. You don’t report Roth IRA
contributions on your return.

What Is a Roth IRA?
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement plan that, except as
explained in this chapter, is subject to the rules that apply
to a traditional IRA (defined next). It can be either an account or an annuity. Individual retirement accounts and
annuities are described in chapter 1 under How Can a Traditional IRA Be Opened. Roth IRAs include Roth IRAs that
receive employer contributions from SEP arrangements.
To be a Roth IRA, the account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is opened.
Unlike a traditional IRA, you can’t deduct contributions
to a Roth IRA. But, if you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions (discussed in chapter 2 of Pub. 590-B)
are tax free, and if you choose, you can leave amounts in
your Roth IRA as long as you live.
Beginning in 2023, SEP and SIMPLE IRAs can be

TIP designated as Roth IRAs.

TIP to your Roth IRA. For more information, see chapter 3.

Is there an age limit for contributions? Contributions
can be made to your Roth IRA regardless of your age.
Can you contribute to a Roth IRA for your spouse?
You can contribute to a Roth IRA for your spouse, provided the contributions satisfy the Kay Bailey Hutchison
Spousal IRA limit discussed in chapter 1 under How Much
Can Be Contributed, you file jointly, and your modified AGI
is less than $246,000.
Compensation. Compensation includes wages, salaries,
tips, professional fees, bonuses, and other amounts received for providing personal services. It also includes
commissions, self-employment income, nontaxable combat pay, military differential pay, taxable alimony and separate maintenance payments, and taxable non-tuition fellowship and stipend payments. For more information, see
What Is Compensation under Who Can Open a Traditional
IRA? in chapter 1.
Modified AGI. Your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes
is your AGI as shown on your return with some adjustments. Use Worksheet 2-1 to determine your modified
AGI.
Don’t subtract conversion income when figuring
your other AGI-based phaseouts and taxable inCAUTION come, such as your deduction for medical and
dental expenses. Subtract them from AGI only for the purpose of figuring your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes.

!

Traditional IRA. A traditional IRA is any IRA that isn’t a
Roth IRA or SIMPLE IRA. Traditional IRAs are discussed
in chapter 1. SIMPLE IRAs are discussed in Pub. 560.
Publication 590-A (2025)

When Can a Roth IRA Be
Opened?

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

39

How Much Can Be Contributed?
The contribution limit for Roth IRAs generally depends on
whether contributions are made only to Roth IRAs or to
both traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs.
Roth IRAs only. If contributions are made only to Roth
IRAs, your contribution limit is generally the lesser of:

• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• Your taxable compensation.

However, if your modified AGI is above a certain
amount, your contribution limit may be reduced, as explained later under Contribution limit reduced.
Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs. If contributions are
made to both Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs established
for your benefit, your contribution limit for Roth IRAs is
generally the same as your limit would be if contributions
were made only to Roth IRAs, but then reduced by all contributions for the year to all IRAs other than Roth IRAs.
Employer contributions under a SEP arrangement or SIMPLE IRA plan don’t affect this limit.
This means that your contribution limit is the lesser of:

• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older) minus all

contributions (other than employer contributions under
a SEP arrangement or SIMPLE IRA plan) for the year
to all IRAs other than Roth IRAs, or

• Your taxable compensation minus all contributions

(other than employer contributions under a SEP arrangement or SIMPLE IRA plan) for the year to all
IRAs other than Roth IRAs.

However, if your modified AGI is above a certain
amount, your contribution limit may be reduced, as explained later under Contribution limit reduced.
SEP arrangements and SIMPLE plans are discussed in
Pub. 560.

40

Chapter 2

Repayment of reservist distributions. You can repay
qualified reservist distributions even if the repayments
would cause your total contributions to the Roth IRA to be
more than the general limit on contributions. However, the
total repayments can’t be more than the amount of your
distribution.
Note: If you make repayments of qualified reservist
distributions to a Roth IRA, increase your basis in the Roth
IRA by the amount of the repayment. For more information, see Qualified reservist repayments under How Much
Can Be Contributed? in chapter 1.
Contribution limit reduced. If your modified AGI is
above a certain amount, your contribution limit is gradually
reduced. Use Table 2-1 to determine if this reduction applies to you.
Figuring the reduction. If the amount you can contribute must be reduced, use Worksheet 2-2 to figure your
reduced contribution limit.
Round your reduced contribution limit up to the

TIP nearest $10. If your reduced contribution limit is

more than $0, but less than $200, increase the
limit to $200.

Example. You are a 45-year-old, single individual with
taxable compensation of $150,000. You want to make the
maximum allowable contribution to your Roth IRA for
2025. Your modified AGI for 2025 is $150,000. You haven’t
contributed to any traditional IRA, so the maximum contribution limit before the modified AGI reduction is $7,000.
You figure your reduced Roth IRA contribution of $6,530
as shown on Worksheet 2-2. Example—Illustrated.

Roth IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Worksheet 2-1. Modified Adjusted Gross Income for Roth IRA Purposes
Use this worksheet to figure your modified adjusted gross income for Roth IRA purposes.

1. Enter your adjusted gross income from Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 11a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. Enter any income resulting from the conversion of an IRA (other than a
Roth IRA) to a Roth IRA (included on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR,
line 4b) and a rollover from a qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA
(included on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Enter any traditional IRA deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Enter any student loan interest deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Enter any foreign earned income exclusion and/or housing exclusion from
Form 2555, line 45 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7. Enter any foreign housing deduction from Form 2555, line 50 . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8. Enter any excludable qualified savings bond interest from Form 8815,
line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9. Enter any excluded employer-provided adoption benefits from Form
8839, line 30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

10. Add the amounts on lines 3 through 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10.

11. Enter:
• $246,000 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
• $10,000 if married filing separately and you lived with your spouse at
any time during the year, or
• $165,000 for all others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11.

Is the amount on line 10 more than the amount on line 11?
If “Yes,” see the Note below.
If “No,” the amount on line 10 is your modified adjusted gross income
for Roth IRA purposes.
Note: If the amount on line 10 is more than the amount on line 11 and you have other income
or loss items, such as social security income or passive activity losses, that are subject to
AGI-based phaseouts, you can refigure your AGI solely for the purpose of figuring your
modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes. (If you receive social security benefits, use Worksheet 1
in Appendix B to refigure your AGI.) Then, go to line 3 above in this Worksheet 2-1 to refigure
your modified AGI. If you don’t have other income or loss items subject to AGI-based
phaseouts, your modified adjusted gross income for Roth IRA purposes is the amount on
line 10 above.

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

41

Table 2-1. Effect of Modified AGI on Roth IRA Contribution
This table shows whether your contribution to a Roth IRA is affected by the amount of your modified adjusted gross
income (modified AGI).

IF you have taxable
compensation
and your filing status is...

married filing jointly or
qualifying surviving spouse

married filing separately
(and you lived with your spouse
at any time during the year)

single, head of household, or
married filing separately
(and you didn’t live with your
spouse at any time during the
year)

42

AND your modified AGI is...

THEN...

less than $236,000

you can contribute up to $7,000
($8,000 if you are age 50 or
older) as explained under How
Much Can Be Contributed,
earlier.

at least $236,000
but less than $246,000

the amount you can contribute
is reduced as explained under
Contribution limit reduced,
earlier.

$246,000 or more

you can’t contribute to a Roth
IRA.

zero (-0-)

you can contribute up to $7,000
($8,000 if you are age 50 or
older) as explained under How
Much Can Be Contributed,
earlier.

more than zero (-0-)
but less than $10,000

the amount you can contribute
is reduced as explained under
Contribution limit reduced,
earlier.

$10,000 or more

you can’t contribute to a Roth
IRA.

less than $150,000

you can contribute up to $7,000
($8,000 if you are age 50 or
older) as explained under How
Much Can Be Contributed,
earlier.

at least $150,000
but less than $165,000

the amount you can contribute
is reduced as explained under
Contribution limit reduced,
earlier.

$165,000 or more

you can’t contribute to a Roth
IRA.

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Worksheet 2-2. Determining Your Reduced Roth IRA Contribution Limit
Before using this worksheet, check Table 2-1 to determine whether or not your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced. If it
is, use this worksheet to determine how much it is reduced.

1. Enter your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes (Worksheet 2-1,
line 10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. Enter:
• $236,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying surviving spouse,
• $-0- if married filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse
at any time in 2025, or
• $150,000 for all others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Enter:
• $10,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying surviving spouse or married
filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time
during the year, or
• $15,000 for all others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Divide line 3 by line 4 and enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at
least three places). If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000 . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Enter the lesser of:
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• Your taxable compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7. Multiply line 5 by line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. Round the result up to the nearest $10. If the
result is less than $200, enter $200 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9. Enter contributions for the year to other IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

10. Subtract line 9 from line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10.

11. Enter the lesser of line 8 or line 10. This is your reduced Roth IRA
contribution limit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11.

When Can You Make Contributions?
You can make contributions to a Roth IRA for a year at any
time during the year or by the due date of your return for
that year (not including extensions).
You can make contributions for 2025 by the due

TIP date (not including extensions) for filing your 2025

over from a Roth IRA or properly converted from a traditional IRA or rolled over from a qualified retirement
plan, as described later) that are more than your contribution limit for the year (explained earlier under How
Much Can Be Contributed); plus
2. Any excess contributions for the preceding year, reduced by the total of:

tax return. This means that most people can make
contributions for 2025 by April 15, 2026.

a. Any distributions out of your Roth IRAs for the
year, plus

What if You Contribute Too Much?

b. Your contribution limit for the year minus your contributions to all your IRAs for the year.

A 6% excise tax applies to any excess contribution to a
Roth IRA.
Excess contributions. These are the contributions to
your Roth IRAs for a year that equal the total of:
1. Amounts contributed for the tax year to your Roth
IRAs (other than amounts properly and timely rolled
Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 2

Withdrawal of excess contributions. For purposes
of determining excess contributions, any contribution that
is withdrawn on or before the due date (including extensions) for filing your tax return for the year is treated as an
amount not contributed. This treatment only applies if any
earnings on the contributions are also withdrawn. The

Roth IRAs

43

Worksheet 2-2. Example—Illustrated
Before using this worksheet, check Table 2-1 to determine whether or not your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced. If it
is, use this worksheet to determine how much it is reduced.
1. Enter your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes (Worksheet 2-1, line 10) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

151,000

2. Enter:
• $236,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying surviving spouse,
• $-0- if married filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time in
2025, or
• $150,000 for all others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

150,000

3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

1,000

4. Enter:
• $10,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying surviving spouse or married filing a
separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time during the year, or
• $15,000 for all others . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

15,000

5. Divide line 3 by line 4 and enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places).
If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

0.067

6. Enter the lesser of:
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• Your taxable compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7,000

7. Multiply line 5 by line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

469

8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. Round the result up to the nearest $10. If the result is less than
$200, enter $200 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

6,540

9. Enter contributions for the year to other IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

0

10. Subtract line 9 from line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10.

7,000

11. Enter the lesser of line 8 or line 10. This is your reduced Roth IRA
contribution limit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11.

6,540

earnings are considered earned and received in the year
the excess contribution was made.
If you timely filed your 2025 tax return without withdrawing a contribution that you made in 2025, you can still have
the contribution returned to you within 6 months of the due
date of your 2025 tax return, excluding extensions. If you
do, file an amended return with “Filed pursuant to section
301.9100-2” written at the top. Report any related earnings on the amended return and include an explanation of
the withdrawal. Make any other necessary changes on the
amended return.
Applying excess contributions. If contributions to your
Roth IRA for a year were more than the limit, you can apply the excess contribution in 1 year to a later year if the
contributions for that later year are less than the maximum
allowed for that year.

Can You Move Amounts Into a
Roth IRA?
You may be able to convert amounts from either a traditional or traditional SIMPLE IRA into a Roth IRA or Roth
SIMPLE IRA. You may be able to roll over amounts from a
qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA. You may be able to
recharacterize contributions made to one IRA as having
44

Chapter 2

been made directly to a different IRA. You can roll
amounts over from a designated Roth account or from one
Roth IRA to another Roth IRA.

Conversions
You can convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. The conversion is treated as a rollover, regardless of the conversion method used. Most of the rules for rollovers, described in chapter 1 under Rollover From One IRA Into
Another, apply to these rollovers. However, the 1-year
waiting period doesn’t apply.
Conversion methods. You can convert amounts from a
traditional IRA to a Roth IRA in any of the following three
ways.

• Rollover. You can receive a distribution from a traditional IRA and roll it over (contribute it) to a Roth IRA
within 60 days after the distribution.

• Trustee-to-trustee transfer. You can direct the

trustee of the traditional IRA to transfer an amount
from the traditional IRA to the trustee of the Roth IRA.

• Same trustee transfer. If the trustee of the traditional
IRA also maintains the Roth IRA, you can direct the
trustee to transfer an amount from the traditional IRA
to the Roth IRA.

Roth IRAs

Publication 590-A (2025)

Same trustee. Conversions made with the same
trustee can be made by redesignating the traditional IRA
as a Roth IRA, rather than opening a new account or issuing a new contract.
Qualified tuition program rollover to a Roth IRA. Beginning with distributions made after December 31, 2023,
a beneficiary of a section 529 qualified tuition program is
permitted to roll over a distribution from the section 529
account to a Roth IRA for the beneficiary if certain requirements are met.

• The rollover must be paid through a direct

Any amount rolled over is subject to the same rules for
converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA. See Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1.
Also, the rollover contribution must meet the rollover requirements that apply to the specific type of retirement
plan.
Rollover methods. You can roll over amounts from a
qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA in one of the following ways.

• Rollover. You can receive a distribution from a quali-

• The rollover amount for a year cannot be more than

fied retirement plan and roll it over (contribute it) to a
Roth IRA within 60 days after the distribution. Because
the distribution is paid directly to you, the payer must
generally withhold 20% of it. For rules about making a
rollover of a plan loan offset, including a qualified plan
loan offset, see Time Limit for Making a Rollover Contribution in chapter 1.

• The rollover must be from a section 529 account that

• Direct rollover option. Your employer's qualified plan

trustee-to-trustee transfer to a Roth IRA maintained for
the benefit of the beneficiary.
the Roth IRA annual contributions limit, and all such
rollovers for the individual’s lifetime cannot exceed
$35,000.
has been open for more than 15 years.

• The distribution cannot exceed the aggregate amount

contributed to the program (and earnings attributed to
the contributed amount) before the 5-year period ending on the date of the distribution.

A distribution made after December 31, 2025, and before April 15, 2026, that is rolled over to a Roth IRA by
April 15, 2026, and designated for 2025 would be reported
as a Roth IRA contribution for 2025.
Income. You must include in your gross income distributions from a traditional IRA that you would have had to include in income if you hadn’t converted them into a Roth
IRA. These amounts are normally included in income on
your return for the year that you converted them from a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA.
If you must include any amount in your gross income, you may have to increase your withholding
CAUTION or make estimated tax payments. See Pub. 505.

!

must give you the option to have any part of an eligible
rollover distribution paid directly to a Roth IRA. Generally, no tax is withheld from any part of the designated
distribution that is directly paid to the trustee of the
Roth IRA.

Rollover by nonspouse beneficiary. If you are a designated beneficiary (other than a surviving spouse) of a deceased employee, you can roll over all or part of an eligible rollover distribution from one of the types of plans
listed earlier into a Roth IRA. You must make the rollover
by a direct trustee-to-trustee transfer into an inherited
Roth IRA.
You will determine your RMDs in years after you make
the rollover based on whether the employee died before
their required beginning date for taking distributions from
the plan. For more information, see Distributions after the
employee’s death under Tax on Excess Accumulation in
Pub. 575.

Rollover From Employer's Plan Into a
Roth IRA

Income. You must include in your gross income distributions from a qualified retirement plan that you would have
had to include in income if you hadn’t rolled them over into
a Roth IRA. You don’t include in gross income any part of
a distribution from a qualified retirement plan that is a return of basis (after-tax contributions) to the plan that were
taxable to you when paid. These amounts are normally included in income on your return for the year of the rollover
from the qualified employer plan to a Roth IRA.

You can roll over into a Roth IRA all or part of an eligible
rollover distribution you receive from your (or your deceased spouse's):

If you must include any amount in your gross income, you may have to increase your withholding
CAUTION or make estimated tax payments. See Pub. 505.

More information. For more information on conversions,
see Converting From Any Traditional IRA Into a Roth IRA
in chapter 1.

• Employer's qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock
bonus plan (including a 401(k) plan);

• Annuity plan;
• Tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan); or
• Governmental deferred compensation plan (section

!

For more information on eligible rollover distributions
from qualified retirement plans and withholding, see Rollover From Employer's Plan Into an IRA in chapter 1.

457 plan).

Publication 590-A (2025)

Chapter 2

Roth IRAs

45

Military Death Gratuities and
Servicemembers' Group Life
Insurance (SGLI) Payments

3.

If you received a military death gratuity or SGLI payment
with respect to a death from injury that occurred after October 6, 2001, you can contribute (roll over) all or part of
the amount received to your Roth IRA. The contribution is
treated as a qualified rollover contribution.
The amount you can roll over to your Roth IRA can’t exceed the total amount that you received reduced by any
part of that amount that was contributed to a Coverdell
ESA or another Roth IRA. Any military death gratuity or
SGLI payment contributed to a Roth IRA is disregarded for
purposes of the 1-year waiting period between rollovers.
The rollover must be completed before the end of the
1-year period beginning on the date you received the payment.
The amount contributed to your Roth IRA is treated as
part of your cost basis (investment in the contract) in the
Roth IRA that isn’t taxable when distributed.

Rollover From a Roth IRA
You can withdraw, tax free, all or part of the assets from
one Roth IRA if you contribute them within 60 days to another Roth IRA. Most of the rules for rollovers, described
in chapter 1 under Rollover From One IRA Into Another,
apply to these rollovers. However, rollovers from retirement plans other than Roth IRAs are disregarded for purposes of the 1-year waiting period between rollovers.
A rollover from a Roth IRA to an employer retirement
plan isn’t allowed.
A rollover from a designated Roth account can only be
made to another designated Roth account or to a Roth
IRA.
If you roll over an amount from one Roth IRA to another
Roth IRA, the 5-year period used to determine qualified
distributions doesn’t change. The 5-year period begins
with the first tax year for which the contribution was made
to the initial Roth IRA. See What Are Qualified Distributions? in chapter 2 of Pub. 590-B.

Retirement Savings
Contributions Credit
(Saver's Credit)
What's New
Modified AGI limit for retirement savings contributions credit increased. For 2025, you may be able to
claim the retirement savings contributions credit if your
modified AGI isn’t more than:

• $79,000 if your filing status is married filing jointly;
• $59,250 if your filing status is head of household; or
• $39,500 if your filing status is single, married filing
separately, or qualifying surviving spouse.

Introduction
You may be able to take a tax credit if you make eligible
contributions (defined later) to a qualified retirement plan,
an eligible deferred compensation plan, or an IRA. You
may be able to take a credit of up to $1,000 (up to $2,000
if filing jointly). This credit could reduce the federal income
tax you pay dollar for dollar.
Can you claim the credit? If you make eligible contributions to a qualified retirement plan, an eligible deferred
compensation plan, or an IRA, you can claim the credit if
all of the following apply.
1. You were born before January 2, 2008.
2. You aren’t a full-time student (explained later).
3. No one else, such as your parent(s), claims you as a
dependent on their tax return.
4. Your adjusted gross income (defined later) isn’t more
than:
a. $79,000 if your filing status is married filing jointly;
b. $59,250 if your filing status is head of household;
or
c. $39,500 if your filing status is single, married filing
separately, or qualifying surviving spouse.
Full-time student. You are a full-time student if, during
some part of each of 5 calendar months (not necessarily
consecutive) during the calendar year, you are either:

• A full-time student at a school that has a regular teaching staff, course of study, and regularly enrolled body
of students in attendance; or

46

Chapter 3

Retirement Savings Contributions Credit
(Saver's Credit)

Publication 590-A (2025)

• A student taking a full-time, on-farm training course

given by either a school that has a regular teaching
staff, course of study, and regularly enrolled body of
students in attendance, or a state, county, or local
government.

You are a full-time student if you are enrolled for the number of hours or courses the school considers to be full
time.
Adjusted gross income (AGI). This is generally the
amount on line 11a of your 2025 Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR. However, you must add to that amount any exclusion or deduction claimed for the year for:

• Foreign earned income,
• Foreign housing costs,
• Income from American Samoa, and
• Income from Puerto Rico.

c. The distribution includes any income attributable
to the contribution.
4. Loans from a qualified employer plan treated as a distribution.
5. Distributions of excess contributions or deferrals (and
income attributable to excess contributions and deferrals).

7. Distributions from an eligible retirement plan that are
converted or rolled over to a Roth IRA.
8. Distributions from a military retirement plan.
9. Distributions from an inherited IRA by a nonspousal
beneficiary.

1. Contributions to a traditional or Roth IRA;
2. Salary reduction contributions (elective deferrals, including amounts designated as after-tax Roth contributions) to:
a. A 401(k) plan (including a SIMPLE 401(k)),
b. A section 403(b) annuity,
c. An eligible deferred compensation plan of a state
or local government (a governmental 457 plan),
d. A SIMPLE IRA plan, or
e. A salary reduction SEP arrangement; and
3. Contributions to a section 501(c)(18) plan.
They also include voluntary after-tax employee contributions to a tax-qualified retirement plan or section 403(b)
annuity. For purposes of the credit, an employee contribution will be voluntary as long as it isn’t required as a condition of employment.
Reducing eligible contributions. Reduce your eligible
contributions (but not below zero) by the total distributions
you received during the testing period (defined later) from
any IRA, plan, or annuity included above under Eligible
contributions. Also reduce your eligible contributions by
any distribution from a Roth IRA that isn’t rolled over, even
if the distribution isn’t taxable.
Don’t reduce your eligible contributions by any of the
following.
1. The portion of any distribution which isn’t includible in
income because it is a trustee-to-trustee transfer or a
rollover distribution.
2. Distributions that are taxable as the result of an
in-plan rollover to your designated Roth account.
3. Any distribution that is a return of a contribution to an
IRA (including a Roth IRA) made during the year for
which you claim the credit if:
Chapter 3

b. You don’t take a deduction for the contribution,
and

6. Distributions of dividends paid on stock held by an
employee stock ownership plan under section 404(k).

Eligible contributions. These include:

Publication 590-A (2025)

a. The distribution is made before the due date (including extensions) of your tax return for that year,

Distributions received by spouse. Any distributions
your spouse receives are treated as received by you if you
file a joint return with your spouse both for the year of the
distribution and for the year for which you claim the credit.
Testing period. The testing period consists of the year
for which you claim the credit, the period after the end of
that year and before the due date (including extensions)
for filing your return for that year, and the 2 tax years before that year.
Example. You and your spouse filed joint returns in
2023 and 2024, and plan to do so in 2025 and 2026. You
received a taxable distribution from a qualified plan in
2023 and a taxable distribution from an eligible deferred
compensation plan in 2024. Your spouse received taxable
distributions from a Roth IRA in 2025 and tax-free distributions from a Roth IRA in 2026 before April 15. You made
eligible contributions to an IRA in 2025 and you otherwise
qualify for this credit. You must reduce the amount of your
qualifying contributions in 2025 by the total of the distributions you received in 2023, 2024, 2025, and 2026.
Maximum eligible contributions. After your contributions are reduced, the maximum annual contribution on
which you can base the credit is $2,000 per person.
Effect on other credits. The amount of this credit won’t
change the amount of your refundable tax credits. A refundable tax credit, such as the earned income credit or
the refundable amount of your child tax credit, is an
amount that you would receive as a refund even if you
didn’t otherwise owe any taxes.
Maximum credit. This is a nonrefundable credit. The
amount of the credit in any year can’t be more than the
amount of tax that you would otherwise pay (not counting
any refundable credits) in any year. If your tax liability is reduced to zero because of other nonrefundable credits,

Retirement Savings Contributions Credit
(Saver's Credit)

47

such as the credit for child and dependent care expenses,
then you won’t be entitled to this credit.
How to figure and report the credit. The amount of the
credit you can get is based on the contributions you make
and your credit rate. Your credit rate can be as low as 10%
or as high as 50%. Your credit rate depends on your income and your filing status. See Form 8880 to determine
your credit rate.
The maximum contribution taken into account is $2,000
per person. On a joint return, up to $2,000 is taken into account for each spouse.
Figure the credit on Form 8880. Report the credit on
Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 4, and attach Form 8880 to
your return.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

48

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
Publication 590-A (2025)

• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the
CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

!

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English
and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian,
and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Publication 590-A (2025)

Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You’ll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.

49

Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s

free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/1040X for information and updates.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-

Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our sysCAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

vice to check your refund status.

The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information
50

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able to use
the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information,
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
Publication 590-A (2025)

Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and
appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the
Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and
click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn’t working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS. Our services are free.

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS

Publication 590-A (2025)

51

Appendices
To help you complete your tax return,
use the following appendices that include worksheets and tables.
1. Appendix A—Summary Record
of Traditional IRA(s) for 2025.
2. Appendix B—Worksheets you
use if you receive social security
benefits and are subject to the IRA

52

deduction phaseout rules. A filled-in example is included.
a. Worksheet 1, Computation of
Modified AGI.
b. Worksheet 2, Computation of
Traditional IRA Deduction for
2025.

c. Worksheet 3, Computation of
Taxable Social Security Benefits.
d. Comprehensive Example and
completed worksheets.
3. Appendix C—Line 1 Worksheet.

Publication 590-A (2025)

Appendix A. Summary Record of Traditional IRA(s) for
2025

Keep for Your Records

Name ______________________________________
I was covered not covered by my employer's retirement plan during the year.
I became age 591/2 on ______________________________________(month) (day) (year)
Contributions

Name of traditional IRA

Date

Amount contributed for
2025

Check if
rollover
contribution

Fair market value of IRA as
of December 31, 2025,
from Form 5498

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Total
Total contributions deducted on tax return

............................................. $

Total contributions treated as nondeductible on Form 8606 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
Distributions

Name of
traditional IRA

Date

Amount of
distribution

Reason (for
example,
retirement,
rollover,
conversion,
withdrawal of
excess
contributions)

Income
earned
on IRA

Taxable
amount
reported on
income tax
return

Nontaxable amount from
Form 8606, line 13

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Total
Basis of all traditional IRAs for 2025 and earlier years (from Form 8606, line 14) . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$

Note. You should keep copies of your income tax return, and Forms W-2, 8606, and 5498.

Publication 590-A (2025)

53

Appendix B. Worksheets for Social Security Recipients
Who Contribute to a Traditional IRA

Keep for Your Records

If you receive social security benefits, have taxable compensation, contribute to your traditional IRA, and you or your spouse
is covered by an employer retirement plan, complete the following worksheets. (See Are You Covered by an Employer Plan?
in chapter 1.)
Use Worksheet 1 to figure your modified adjusted gross income. This amount is needed in the computation of your IRA
deduction, if any, which is figured using Worksheet 2.
The IRA deduction figured using Worksheet 2 is entered on your tax return.
Worksheet 1
Computation of Modified AGI
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits)
Filing Status—Check only one box:
A. Married filing jointly
B. Single, Head of household, Qualifying surviving spouse, or Married filing separately and
lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the year
1. Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any social security
benefits from Form SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, any deduction for contributions to a traditional
IRA, any student loan interest deduction, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be
reported on Form 8815. See the Line 1 Worksheet in Appendix C for assistance with
this calculation.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter the amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Enter one-half of line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion, U.S.
territories income exclusion, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you claimed as a bona fide
resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a . . . . .
6. Add lines 1, 3, 4, and 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $32,000 if you checked box A above.
• $25,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. If line 8 is zero, skip to line 17, enter -0-, and continue with line 18.
If line 8 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $12,000 if you checked box A above.
• $9,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -011. Enter the smaller of line 8 or line 9

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

7.
8.

9.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.

12. Enter one-half of line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.
13. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
14. Multiply line 10 by 0.85. If line 10 is zero, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.
15. Add lines 13 and 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.
16. Multiply line 2 by 0.85 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
17. Taxable benefits to be included in modified AGI for traditional IRA deduction purposes.
Enter the smaller of line 15 or line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18. Enter the amount of any employer-provided adoption benefits exclusion and any foreign
earned income exclusion and foreign housing exclusion or deduction that you claimed . . . . . .
19. Modified AGI for determining your reduced traditional IRA deduction—add lines 1, 17, and
18. Enter here and on line 2 of Worksheet 2 next . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

54

16.
17.
18.
19.

Publication 590-A (2025)

Appendix B (continued)

Keep for Your Records

Worksheet 2
Computation of Traditional IRA Deduction for 2025
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits)
IF your filing status is...

AND your modified AGI is over...

THEN enter on line 1
below...

married filing jointly or
qualifying surviving
spouse

$126,000*

$146,000

married filing jointly (you
are not covered by an
employer plan but your
spouse is)

$236,000*

$246,000

single, or head of
household

$79,000*

$89,000

$0*

$10,000

married filing
separately**

* If your modified AGI isn’t over this amount, you can take an IRA deduction for your contributions of up to the lesser
of $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older) or your taxable compensation. Skip this worksheet, proceed to
Worksheet 3, and enter your IRA deduction on line 2 of Worksheet 3.
** If you didn’t live with your spouse at any time during the year, consider your filing status as single.
Note. If you were married and you or your spouse worked and you both contributed to IRAs, figure the deduction for
each of you separately.
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.

6.
7.
8.

Enter the applicable amount from above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter your modified AGI from Worksheet 1, line 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Note. If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here; your traditional
IRA contributions aren’t deductible. Proceed to Worksheet 3.
Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn’t a multiple of
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you
are covered by an employer plan, multiply line 3 by 35%
(0.35) (by 40% (0.40) if you are age 50 or older).
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
• All others, multiply line 3 by 70% (0.70) (by 80% (0.80) if
you are age 50 or older).
Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15
(deductible part of self-employment tax), and Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16
(self-employed SEP, SIMPLE, and qualified plans). If you are the lower-income spouse,
include your spouse's compensation reduced by their traditional IRA and Roth IRA
contributions for this year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
Enter contributions you made, or plan to make, to your traditional IRA for 2025, but don’t
enter more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount here (or a smaller
amount if you choose). Enter this amount on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20. (If the
amount on line 6 is more than the amount on line 7, complete line 8.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
Nondeductible contributions. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or line 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.

Publication 590-A (2025)

55

Appendix B (continued)

Keep for Your Records

Worksheet 3
Computation of Taxable Social Security Benefits
(For use by taxpayers who receive social security benefits and take a traditional IRA
deduction)
Filing Status—Check only one box:
A. Married filing jointly
B. Single, Head of household, Qualifying surviving spouse, or Married filing separately
and lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the
year
1.

2.
3.
4.
5.

Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any IRA
deduction, any student loan interest deduction, or any social security benefits from Form
SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be reported
on Form 8815. See the Line 1 Worksheet in Appendix C for assistance with
this calculation.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Deduction(s) from line 7 of Worksheet(s) 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Enter the amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Enter one-half of line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

6.

Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion,
exclusion of income from U.S. territories, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you
claimed as a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided
adoption benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on line 2a of Form 1040 or
1040-SR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Add lines 3, 5, 6, and 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.
9. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $32,000 if you checked box A above.
• $25,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. If line 10 is zero, stop here. None of your social security benefits are taxable.
If line 10 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $12,000 if you checked box A above.
• $9,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
12. Subtract line 11 from line 10. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.
13. Enter the smaller of line 10 or line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
14. Enter one-half of line 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.
15. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.
16. Multiply line 12 by 0.85. If line 12 is zero, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.
17. Add lines 15 and 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.
18. Multiply line 4 by 0.85 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.
19. Taxable social security benefits. Enter the smaller of line 17 or line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.

56

Publication 590-A (2025)

Appendix B (continued)

Keep for Your Records

Comprehensive Example
Determining Your Traditional IRA Deduction and
the Taxable Portion of Your Social Security Benefits
You are married and file a joint return. You are 65 years old and had 2025 wages of $115,000. Your spouse didn’t work in
2025. You received social security benefits of $12,000 and made a $8,000 contribution to your traditional IRA for the year.
You had no foreign income, no tax-exempt interest, and no adjustments to income on lines 11 through 26 on your Schedule 1
(Form 1040). You participated in a section 401(k) retirement plan at work.
You complete Worksheets 1 and 2. Worksheet 2 shows that your 2025 IRA deduction is $7,200. You must either withdraw
the contributions that are more than the deduction amount (the $880 shown on line 8 of Worksheet 2) or treat the excess
amounts as nondeductible contributions (in which case you must complete Form 8606 and attach it to your Form 1040-SR).
The completed worksheets that follow show how you figured your modified AGI to determine the IRA deduction and the
taxable social security benefits to report on your Form 1040-SR.
Worksheet 1
Computation of Modified AGI
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits)
Filing Status—Check only one box:
A. Married filing jointly
B. Single, Head of household, Qualifying surviving spouse, or Married filing separately and
lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the year
1. Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any social security
benefits from Form SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, any deduction for contributions to a traditional
IRA, any student loan interest deduction, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be
reported on Form 8815. See the Line 1 Worksheet in Appendix C for assistance with
this calculation.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter the amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Enter one-half of line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion, U.S.
territories income exclusion, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you claimed as a bona fide
resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a . . . . . 5.
6. Add lines 1, 3, 4, and 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $32,000 if you checked box A above.
• $25,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.
9. If line 8 is zero, skip to line 17, enter -0-, and continue with line 18.
If line 8 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $12,000 if you checked box A above.
• $9,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. Enter the smaller of line 8 or line 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
12. Enter one-half of line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.
13. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
14. Multiply line 10 by 0.85. If line 10 is zero, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.
15. Add lines 13 and 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.
16. Multiply line 2 by 0.85 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.
17. Taxable benefits to be included in modified AGI for traditional IRA deduction purposes.
Enter the smaller of line 15 or line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.
18. Enter the amount of any employer-provided adoption benefits exclusion and any foreign
earned income exclusion and foreign housing exclusion or deduction that you claimed . . . . . . 18.
19. Modified AGI for determining your reduced traditional IRA deduction—add lines 1, 17, and
18. Enter here and on line 2 of Worksheet 2 next . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.

Publication 590-A (2025)

118,000
12,000
6,000
0
0
124,000

32,000
92,000

12,000
80,000
12,000
6,000
6,000
68,000
74,000
10,200
10,200
0
128,200

57

Appendix B (continued)

Keep for Your Records

Worksheet 2
Computation of Traditional IRA Deduction for 2025
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits)
IF your filing status is...

AND your modified AGI is over...

THEN enter on line 1
below...

married filing jointly or
qualifying surviving
spouse

$126,000*

$146,000

married filing jointly (you
aren’t covered by an
employer plan but your
spouse is)

$236,000*

$246,000

single, or head of
household

$79,000*

$89,000

$0*

$10,000

married filing
separately**

* If your modified AGI isn’t over this amount, you can take an IRA deduction for your contributions of up to the lesser
of $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older) or your taxable compensation. Skip this worksheet, proceed to
Worksheet 3, and enter your IRA deduction on line 2 of Worksheet 3.
** If you didn’t live with your spouse at any time during the year, consider your filing status as single.
Note. If you were married and you or your spouse worked and you both contributed to IRAs, figure the deduction for
each of you separately.
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.

6.
7.
8.

58

Enter the applicable amount from above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter your modified AGI from Appendix B, Worksheet 1, line 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Note. If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here; your traditional
IRA contributions aren’t deductible. Proceed to Worksheet 3.
Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn’t a multiple of
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you
are covered by an employer plan, multiply line 3 by 35%
(0.35) (by 40% (0.40) if you are age 50 or older).
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
• All others, multiply line 3 by 70% (0.70) (by 80% (0.80) if
you are age 50 or older).
Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15
(deductible part of self-employment tax), and Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16
(self-employed SEP, SIMPLE, and qualified plans). If you are the lower-income spouse,
include your spouse's compensation reduced by their traditional IRA and Roth IRA
contributions for this year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
Enter contributions you made, or plan to make, to your traditional IRA for 2025, but don’t
enter more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount here (or a smaller
amount if you choose). Enter this amount on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20. (If the
amount on line 6 is more than the amount on line 7, complete line 8.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
Nondeductible contributions. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or line 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.

146,000
128,200
17,800

7,120

118,000
8,000
7,120
880

Publication 590-A (2025)

Appendix B (continued)

Keep for Your Records

Worksheet 3
Computation of Taxable Social Security Benefits
(For use by taxpayers who receive social security benefits and take a traditional IRA deduction)
Filing Status—Check only one box:
A. Married filing jointly
B. Single, Head of household, Qualifying surviving spouse, or Married filing separately
and lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the
year
1.

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

7.
8.
9.

10.
11.

12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any IRA
deduction, any student loan interest deduction, any social security benefits from Form
SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be reported on
Form 8815. See the Line 1 Worksheet in Appendix C for assistance with this
calculation.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Deduction(s) from line 7 of Worksheet(s) 2 in Appendix B . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter one-half of line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion,
exclusion of income from U.S. territories, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you
claimed as a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided adoption
benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR,
line 2a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add lines 3, 5, 6, and 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $32,000 if you checked box A above.
• $25,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
If line 10 is zero, stop here. None of your social security benefits are taxable.
If line 10 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $12,000 if you checked box A above.
• $9,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Subtract line 11 from line 10. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the smaller of line 10 or line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter one-half of line 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Multiply line 12 by 0.85. If line 12 is zero, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add lines 15 and 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Multiply line 4 by 0.85 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Taxable social security benefits. Enter the smaller of line 17 or line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Appendix C. Line 1 Worksheet

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

128,200
7,120
121,080
12,000
6,000

6.

0

7.
8.

0
127,080

9.
10.

32,000
95,080

11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

12,000
83,080
12,000
6,000
6,000
70,618
76,618
10,200
10,200

Line 1 Supplemental Worksheet
1.

Enter your adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.

2.

Enter any social security benefits included in AGI from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.

3.

Enter your IRA deduction amount from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.

4.

Enter your student loan interest deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 21

5

Enter the amount of savings bond interest reported on Form 8815, line14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

6.

Add the amounts on lines 2 through 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

7.

Subtract the amount on line 6 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

8.

Enter this amount on line 1 of Worksheets 1 and 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.

Publication 590-A (2025)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

59

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

10% additional tax 32
20% withholding 26
6% excise tax on excess
contributions to Roth IRAs 43
60-day period for rollovers 22

A

Additional taxes 33, 38
(See also Penalties)
Adjusted gross income (AGI) 13,
39
(See also Modified adjusted gross
income (AGI))
Retirement savings contributions
credit 47
Age 50:
Contributions 9
Age limit:
Traditional IRA 10
Alimony 7
Annuity contracts 10
Borrowing on 33
Assistance (See Tax help)

B

Basis:
Traditional IRAs 17
Bond purchase plans:
Rollovers from 28
Bonds, retirement (See Individual
retirement bonds)
Broker's commissions 9, 11

C

Collectibles 34
Community property 9
Compensation:
Alimony 7
Defined 6
Income included (Table 1-1) 7
Nontaxable combat pay 7
Self-employment 7
Wages, salaries, etc. 6
Conduit IRAs 27
Contribution limits:
More than one IRA 10
Contributions
Designating the year 11
Distributions in same year as 15
Excess (See Excess contributions)
Less than maximum 10
Nondeductible (See Nondeductible
contributions)
Not required 11
Qualified reservist repayments 9
60

Recharacterizing
(See Recharacterization)
Retirement savings contributions
credit 47
Roth IRAs 39-44
Traditional IRAs 9, 10
When to contribute 10
Withdrawing before due date of
return 31
Conversions:
To Roth IRAs 44
Credits
Retirement savings contributions
credit 46-48

D

Deductions
Figuring reduced IRA deduction 16
Phaseout 13
Traditional IRAs 11-17
Deemed IRAs 38
Defined benefit plans 12
Defined contribution plans 12
Difficulty of care payments:
Compensation 16
Nondeductible IRA contributions 16
Distributions:
Contributions in same year as 15
Income from 15
Inherited IRAs (See Inherited IRAs)
Divorce:
Rollovers by former spouse 28
Transfers incident to 28

E

Early distributions 33
(See also Additional taxes)
Tax 32
Employer and employee
association trust accounts 8
Employer plans:
Covered by 11
Year(s) covered 12
Employer retirement plans 12
Defined benefit plans 12
Defined contribution plans 12
Effect of modified AGI on deduction
(Table 1-2) 14
Limit if covered by 13
Prohibited transactions 33
Endowment contracts (See Annuity
contracts)
Excess contributions 35-38
Closed tax year 38
Deducted in earlier year 36

Deductible this year (Worksheet
1-5) 36
Deductible this year if any were
deducted in closed tax year
(Worksheet 1-6) 38
Deducting in a later year 36
Due to incorrect rollover
information 36
Recharacterizing 30
Roth IRAs 43
Tax 32
Withdrawn after due date of
return 35
Withdrawn by due date of return 35
Exempt transactions 33

F

Federal judges 12
Fiduciaries:
Prohibited transactions 33
Filing before IRA contribution is
made 11
Filing status 10
Deduction phaseout and 13
Firefighters, volunteer 13
Form 1040:
Modified AGI calculation from 14
Form 1040-NR:
Modified AGI calculation from 15
Form 1040-SR:
Modified AGI calculation from 14
Form 1099-R:
Distribution code 1 used on 38
Withdrawal of excess
contribution 35
Form 5329 38
Form 8606 16
Failure to file, penalty 17
Form 8880 48
Form W-2:
Employer retirement plans 12
Frozen deposits 24
Full-time student:
Retirement savings contributions
credit 46

H

How to:
Set up an IRA 7
Treat withdrawn contributions 35

I

Individual retirement accounts 7
Individual retirement annuities 8

Publication 590-A (2025)

Individual retirement arrangements
(IRAs):
How to set up 7
When to set up 7
Individual retirement bonds 8
Inherited IRAs 21
Rollovers 25
Interest on IRA 3
Investment in collectibles:
Collectibles defined 34
Exception 34

Roth IRAs 38
Age limit 39
Contribution limit reduced 40
Determining reduced limit
(Worksheet 2-2) 43
Contributions 39-44
Q
Timing of 43
To traditional IRAs and to Roth
Qualified domestic relations orders
IRAs 40
(QDROs) 28
Conversion 29, 44
R
Defined 39
Excess contributions 43
Recharacterization 29-31
K
Modified AGI:
Determining amount of net income
Effect on contribution amount
due to contribution and total
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal
(Table 2-1) 42
amount to be recharacterized
IRAs:
(Worksheet 1-3) 30
Figuring (Worksheet 2-1) 41
Contribution limits 10
Timing of 30
Rollovers from 46
Deductions 11
Recordkeeping requirements:
Setting up 39
Roth IRA contribution limits 39
Summary record of traditional IRAs
Spouse 39
Keogh plans:
for 2025 (Appendix A) 53
Traditional IRAs converted into 29
Rollovers from 28
Traditional IRAs 17
S
Reporting:
L
Additional
taxes
38
Section 501(c)(18) plan 9, 10
Last-in first-out rule 32
Deductible
contributions
16
Self-certification
24
Life insurance 28
Recharacterization 31
Self-employed persons:
Line 1 Worksheet 59
Rollovers:
Deductible contributions 16
From employer plans 28
M
Income of 6
From IRAs 25
Separated taxpayers:
Military death gratuities 46
Filing status of 13
Missing children, photographs of 3 Reservists 13
Qualified
reservist
repayments
9
Servicemembers
group life
Modified adjusted gross income
Retirement bonds (See Individual
insurance 46
(AGI):
retirement bonds)
Services received at reduced or no
Employer retirement plan coverage
Retirement
savings contributions
cost 34
and deduction (Table 1-2) 14
credit
46-48
SIMPLE
IRAs 8
Figuring (Worksheet 1-1) 16
Rollovers
22-28
Traditional
IRA, mistakenly moved
No employer retirement plan
Amount 24
to 29
coverage and deduction
Choosing an option (Table 1-5) 27
Simplified employee pensions
(Table 1-3) 14
(SEPs) 8
Completed after 60-day period 22
Roth IRAs 39
Social Security recipients 13
Conduit IRAs 27
Effect on contribution amount
Contributions to traditional IRAs,
Direct rollover option 27
(Table 2-1) 42
worksheet (Appendix B) 54, 57
Extension of period 24
More than one IRA 10
Spousal
IRAs (See Kay Bailey
From
bond
purchase
plan
28
Recharacterization 31
Hutchison Spousal IRAs or Inherited
From employer's plan into a Roth
IRAs)
N
IRA 45
Students:
From employer's plan into an
Nondeductible contributions 16
Retirement savings contributions
IRA 25
Failure to report 17
credit 46
From
Keogh
plans
28
Overstatement penalty 17
Surviving
spouse:
From one IRA into another 24
Notice:
Rollovers
by 28
From Roth IRAs 46
Qualified employer plan to provide
From traditional IRA 22
prior to rollover distribution 26
T
Inherited IRAs 25
Rollovers 22
Tables:
Nonspouse beneficiary 26
Compensation, types of
Notice 22
P
(Table 1-1) 7
Partial
25,
28
Partial rollovers 25, 28
Modified
AGI:
Tax treatment of rollover from
Penalties 33-38
Employer
retirement plan
traditional IRA to eligible
Excess contributions 35-38
coverage and deduction
retirement plan other than an
Roth IRAs 43
(Table 1-2) 14
IRA 22
Exempt transactions 33, 34
No employer retirement plan
Time limit 22
coverage and deduction
Failure to file Form 8606 17
To Roth IRAs 44
(Table 1-3) 14
Overstatement of nondeductible
To traditional IRA 22
Roth IRAs, effect on contribution
contributions 17
Waiting period between 25, 27
(Table 2-1) 42
Prohibited transactions 33, 34
Withholding (See Withholding)
Publication 590-A (2025)

Phaseout of deduction 13
Pledging account as security 33
Prohibited transactions 33, 34
Additional taxes 33
Publications (See Tax help)

61

Rollover vs. direct payment to
taxpayer (Table 1-5) 27
Using this publication (Table I-1) 4
Tax advantages of IRAs 3
Tax credits
Retirement savings contributions
credit 46-48
Tax help 48
Tax year 12
Tax-sheltered annuities:
Rollovers from 28
Traditional IRAs 6-38
Contribution limits 9, 10
Contributions 9, 10
Due date 11
To Roth IRAs and to traditional
IRAs 40
Converting into Roth IRA 29
Cost basis 17
Deductions 11-17
Defined 6
Disclosures 8
Excess contributions 35-38
Inherited IRAs 21
Loss of IRA status 33
Mistakenly moved to SIMPLE
IRA 29
Recordkeeping 17
Reduced IRA deduction for
2025 17

62

Rollovers (See Rollovers)
Setting up 6-8
Social Security recipients 13, 54,
57
Summary record for 2025
(Appendix A) 53
Transfers 21
Types of 7
Withdrawing or using assets 31, 32
Transfers 21
Divorce 28
To Roth IRAs 21, 44
Trustee to trustee 22, 44
Trustee-to-trustee transfers 22
To Roth IRAs 44
Trustees' fees 9, 11

U

Unrelated Business Income 34

V

Volunteer firefighters 13

W

Withdrawing or using assets
Contribution withdrawal, before due
date of return 31
Determining total amount to be
withdrawn (Worksheet 1-4) 32

Traditional IRAs 31, 32
Withholding:
Direct rollover option 27
Eligible rollover distribution paid to
taxpayer 26
Worksheets:
Excess contributions deductible this
year (Worksheet 1-5) 36
If any were deducted in closed
tax year (Worksheet 1-6) 38
Figuring amount of net income due
to IRA contribution and total
amount to be recharacterized
(Worksheet 1-3) 30
Figuring amount of net income due
to IRA contribution and total
amount to be withdrawn
(Worksheet 1-4) 32
Figuring modified AGI (Worksheet
1-1) 16
Roth IRAs:
Figuring modified AGI
(Worksheet 2-1) 41
Figuring reduced contribution
limit (Worksheet 2-2) 43
Social Security recipients who
contribute to traditional IRAs
(Appendix B) 54, 57

Publication 590-A (2025)

