Department of the Treasury
Internal Revenue Service

Publication 971

(Rev. December 2021)
Cat. No. 25757C

Innocent
Spouse Relief

Contents
Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Future Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
How To Request Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Community Property Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Innocent Spouse Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Separation of Liability Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Equitable Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Refunds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Flowcharts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

Reminders
Scope of review. If you petition the Tax Court to review
your request for relief, the Tax Court may only be allowed
to consider information you or the person on line 6 provided us before we made our final determination, additional
information we included in our administrative file about
your request for relief, and any information that is newly
discovered or previously unavailable. Therefore, it is important that you provide us with information you want us or
the Tax Court to consider.
Victims of abuse. The IRS has issued Revenue Procedure 2013–34, available at IRS.gov/irb/2013-34_IRB/
ar07.html. This revenue procedure expands how the IRS
will take into account abuse and financial control by the
nonrequesting spouse in determining whether equitable
relief is warranted. It also broadens the availability of refunds in cases involving deficiencies. See Equitable Relief
and Refunds, later.

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 971, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/pub971.

Introduction
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Dec 27, 2021

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

When you file a joint income tax return, the law makes
both you and your spouse responsible for the entire tax liability. This is called joint and several liability. Joint and
several liability applies not only to the tax liability you show
on the return but also to any additional tax liability the IRS
determines to be due, even if the additional tax is due to
income, deductions, or credits of your spouse or former

spouse. You remain jointly and severally liable for taxes,
and the IRS can still collect them from you, even if you
later divorce and the divorce decree states that your former spouse will be solely responsible for the tax.
In some cases, a spouse (or former spouse) will be relieved of the tax, interest, and penalties on a joint tax return. Three types of relief are available to married persons
who filed joint returns.
1. Innocent spouse relief.
2. Separation of liability relief.
3. Equitable relief.
Married persons who did not file joint returns, but who
live in community property states, may also qualify for relief. See Community Property Laws, later.
This publication explains these types of relief, who may
qualify for them, and how to get them.

Questions about innocent spouse relief. The IRS
can help you with your request for innocent spouse relief.
If you are working with an IRS employee, you can ask that
employee, or you can call 855-851-2009.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publications
504 Divorced or Separated Individuals
504

555 Community Property
555

556 Examination of Returns, Appeal Rights, and
Claims for Refund
556

594 The IRS Collection Process
594

Forms (and Instructions)
8857 Request for Innocent Spouse Relief
8857

What this publication does not cover. This publication
does not discuss injured spouse relief. You are an injured spouse if your share of the overpayment shown on
your joint return was, or is expected to be, applied (offset)
against your spouse's legally enforceable past-due federal taxes, state income taxes, state unemployment compensation debts, child or spousal support payments, or a
federal nontax debt, such as a student loan. If you are an
injured spouse, you may be entitled to receive a refund of
your share of the overpayment. For more information, see
Form 8379, Injured Spouse Allocation.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.
Page 2

How To Request Relief
File Form 8857 to ask the IRS for the types of relief discussed in this publication. If you are requesting relief for
more than 6 tax years, you must file an additional Form
8857.
The IRS will review your Form 8857 and let you know if
you qualify.

When To File Form 8857
You should file Form 8857 as soon as you become aware
of a tax liability for which you believe only your spouse or
former spouse should be held responsible. The following
are some of the ways you may become aware of such a
liability.

• The IRS is examining your tax return and proposing to
increase your tax liability.

• The IRS sends you a notice.
However, you must generally file Form 8857 no later
than 2 years after the date on which the IRS first attempted to collect the tax from you. (But see the exceptions
below for different filing deadlines that apply.) For this reason, do not delay filing because you do not have all the
documentation.
Collection activities that may start the 2-year period include the following:

• The IRS offset your income tax refund against an

amount you owed on a joint return for another year
and the IRS informed you about your right to file Form
8857.

• The filing of a claim by the IRS in a court proceeding in
which you were a party or the filing of a claim in a proceeding that involves your property. This includes the
filing of a proof of claim in a bankruptcy proceeding.

• The filing of a suit by the United States against you to
collect the joint liability.

Publication 971 (December 2021)

• The issuance of a section 6330 notice, which notifies
you of the IRS's intent to levy and your right to a collection due process (CDP) hearing. The IRS usually
sends a section 6330 notice by issuing a Letter 11 or
Letter 1058.

Exception for equitable relief. The amount of time to
request equitable relief depends on whether you are seeking relief from a balance due, seeking a credit or refund, or
both.
Generally, you must file your request:

• Balance due. Within the time period the IRS has to

collect the tax, if you have a balance due. Generally,
the IRS has 10 years from the date the tax liability was
assessed to collect the tax. In certain cases, the
10-year period is suspended. The amount of time the
suspension is in effect will extend the time the IRS has
to collect the tax. See Pub. 594 for details.

• Credit or refund.Within 3 years after the date the

original return was filed or within 2 years after the date
the tax was paid, whichever is later. But you may have
more time to file if you live in a federally declared disaster area or you are physically or mentally unable to
manage your financial affairs. See Pub. 556 for details.

• Both a balance due and a credit or refund. And, If

you are seeking a refund of amounts you paid and relief from a balance due over and above what you have
paid, the time period for credit or refund will apply to
any payments you have made, and the time period for
collection of a balance due amount will apply to any
unpaid liability.

Exception for relief from liability for tax attributable
to an item of community income. If you are requesting
relief from liability for tax attributable to an item of community income, a different filing deadline applies. See Relief From Liability for Tax Attributable to an Item of Community Income, discussed later under Community
Property Laws. The time in which to request equitable relief from liability for tax attributable to an item of community income follows the rules for equitable relief, earlier.
Form 8857 filed by or on behalf of a decedent. An executor (including any other duly appointed representative)
may pursue a Form 8857 filed during the decedent's lifetime. An executor (including any other duly appointed representative) may also file Form 8857 as long as the decedent satisfied the eligibility requirements while alive. For
purposes of separation of liability relief (discussed later),
the decedent's marital status is determined on the earlier
of the date relief was requested or the date of death.
Situations in which you are not entitled to relief. You
are not entitled to innocent spouse relief for any tax year
to which the following situations apply.
1. In a final decision, a court considered whether to
grant you relief from joint liability and decided not to
do so.

Publication 971 (December 2021)

2. In a final decision, a court did not consider whether to
grant you relief from joint liability, but you meaningfully
participated in the proceeding and could have asked
for relief.
3. You entered into an offer in compromise with the IRS.
4. You entered into a closing agreement with the IRS
that disposed of the same liability for which you want
to seek relief.
Exception for agreements relating to TEFRA part­
nership proceedings. You may be entitled to relief, discussed in (4) earlier, if you entered into a closing agreement for both partnership items and nonpartnership items,
while you were a party to a pending TEFRA partnership
proceeding. (TEFRA is an acronym that refers to the “Tax
Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982” that prescribed the tax treatment of partnership items.) You are not
entitled to relief for the nonpartnership items, but you will
be entitled to relief for the partnership items (if you otherwise qualify).
Transferee liability not affected by innocent spouse
relief provisions. The innocent spouse relief provisions
do not affect tax liabilities that arise under federal or state
transferee liability or property laws. Therefore, even if you
are relieved of the tax liability under the innocent spouse
relief provisions, you may remain liable for the unpaid tax,
interest, and penalties to the extent provided by these
laws.
Example. Herb and Wanda timely filed their 2018 joint
income tax return on April 15, 2019. Herb died in March
2020, and the executor of Herb's will transferred all of the
estate's assets to Wanda. In August 2020, the IRS assessed a deficiency for the 2018 return. The items causing the deficiency belong to Herb. Wanda is relieved of
the deficiency under the innocent spouse relief provisions,
and Herb's estate remains solely liable for it. However, the
IRS may collect the deficiency from Wanda to the extent
permitted under federal or state transferee liability or property laws.

The IRS Must Contact Your Spouse or
Former Spouse
By law, the IRS must contact your spouse or former
spouse. There are no exceptions, even for victims of
spousal abuse or domestic violence.
We will inform your spouse or former spouse that you
filed Form 8857 and will allow him or her to participate in
the process. If you are requesting relief from joint and several liability on a joint return, the IRS must also inform him
or her of its preliminary and final determinations regarding
your request for relief.
To protect your privacy, the IRS will not disclose your
personal information (such as your current name, address, phone number(s), or information about your employer, your income, or your assets). Any other information you provide that the IRS uses to make a
determination about your request for relief from liability
Page 3

could be disclosed to the person you list on Form 8857,
line 6. If you have concerns about your privacy or the privacy of others, you should redact or black out personal information in the material you submit.

line 1. You have the following two ways to get relief. You
can request relief from liability for tax attributable to an
item of community income or you may be able to request
equitable relief.

If you petition the Tax Court (explained below),
your spouse or former spouse may see your perCAUTION sonal information, unless you ask the Tax Court to
withhold it.

Relief for Married Persons Who Did
Not File Joint Returns

!

Tax Court Review of Request
After you file Form 8857, you may be able to petition (ask)
the United States Tax Court to review your request for relief (other than a request for relief from liability for tax attributable to an item of community income) if:
1. The IRS sends you a final determination letter regarding your request for relief, or
2. You do not receive a final determination letter from
the IRS within 6 months from the date you filed Form
8857.
The United States Tax Court is an independent judicial
body and is not part of the IRS.
You must file the petition no later than the 90th day after the date the IRS mails its final determination letter to
you. If you do not file a petition, or you file it late, the Tax
Court cannot review your request for relief.
You can get a copy of the rules for filing a petition
by writing to the Tax Court at the following address:
United States Tax Court
400 Second Street, NW
Washington, DC 20217
Or you can visit
www.ustaxcourt.gov.

the

Tax

Court's

website

at

Community Property Laws
Generally, you must follow community property laws when
filing a tax return if you are married and live in a community property state. Community property states are Arizona,
California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas,
Washington, and Wisconsin. Generally, community property laws provide that you and your spouse are both entitled to one-half of your total community income and expenses. If you and your spouse filed a joint return in a
community property state, you are both jointly and severally liable for the total liability on the return. If you request
relief from joint and several liability, state community property laws are not taken into account in determining
whether an item belongs to you or your spouse or former
spouse.
If you were a married resident of a community property
state, but did not file a joint return and are now liable for
an unpaid or understated tax, check "Yes" on Form 8857,
Page 4

Married persons who live in community property states,
but who did not file joint returns, have two ways to get relief.

Relief From Liability for Tax Attributable to
an Item of Community Income
You are not responsible for the tax relating to an item of
community income if all the following conditions exist.
1. You did not file a joint return for the tax year.
2. You did not include the item of community income in
gross income.
3. The item of community income you did not include is
one of the following.
a. Wages, salaries, and other compensation your
spouse (or former spouse) received for services
he or she performed as an employee.
b. Income your spouse (or former spouse) derived
from a trade or business he or she operated as a
sole proprietor.
c. Your spouse's (or former spouse's) distributive
share of partnership income.
d. Income from your spouse's (or former spouse's)
separate property (other than income described in
(a), (b), or (c)). Use the appropriate community
property law to determine what is separate property.
e. Any other income that belongs to your spouse (or
former spouse) under community property law.
4. You establish that you did not know of, and had no
reason to know of, that community income. See Actual knowledge or reason to know below.
5. Under all facts and circumstances, it would not be fair
to include the item of community income in your gross
income. See Indications of unfairness for relief from liability for tax attributable to an item of community income, later.
Actual knowledge or reason to know. You knew or
had reason to know of an item of community income if:

• You actually knew of the item of community income,
or

• A reasonable person in similar circumstances would
have known of the item of community income.

Amount of community income unknown. If you are
aware of the source of the item of community income or
Publication 971 (December 2021)

the income-producing activity, but are unaware of the specific amount, you are considered to know or have reason
to know of the item of community income. Not knowing the
specific amount is not a basis for relief.
Reason to know. The IRS will consider all facts and
circumstances in determining whether you had reason to
know of an item of community income. The facts and circumstances include.

• The nature of the item of community income and the
amount of the item relative to other income items.

• The financial situation of you and your spouse (or former spouse).

• Your educational background and business experience.

• Whether the item of community income represented a
departure from a recurring pattern reflected in prior
years' returns (for example, omitted income from an
investment regularly reported on prior years' returns).

Indications of unfairness for relief from liability for
tax attributable to an item of community income. The
IRS will consider all of the facts and circumstances of the
case in order to determine whether it is unfair to hold you
responsible for the understated tax due to the item of
community income.
The following are examples of factors the IRS will consider.

• Whether you received a benefit, either directly or indirectly, from the omitted item of community income
(defined below).

• Whether your spouse (or former spouse) deserted
you.

• Whether you and your spouse have been divorced or
separated.

For other factors, see Factors for Determining Whether To
Grant Equitable Relief, later.
Benefit from omitted item of community income. A
benefit includes normal support, but does not include de
minimis (small) amounts. Evidence of a direct or indirect
benefit may consist of transfers of property or rights to
property, including transfers received several years after
the filing of the return.
For example, if you receive property, including life insurance proceeds, from your spouse (or former spouse)
and the property is traceable to omitted items of community income attributable to your spouse (or former spouse),
you are considered to have benefitted from those omitted
items of community income.

Equitable Relief
If you do not qualify for the relief described above and are
now liable for an unpaid or understated tax you believe
should be paid only by your spouse (or former spouse),
you may request equitable relief (discussed later).

Publication 971 (December 2021)

How and When To Request Relief
You request relief by filing Form 8857, as discussed earlier. Fill in Form 8857 according to the instructions.
For relief from liability for tax attributable to an item of
community income, you must file Form 8857 no later than
6 months before the expiration of the period of limitations
on assessment (including extensions) against your
spouse for the tax year for which you are requesting relief.
However, if the IRS begins an examination of your return
during that 6-month period, the latest time for requesting
relief is 30 days after the date of the IRS's initial contact
letter to you. The period of limitation on assessment is the
amount of time, generally 3 years, that the IRS has from
the date you filed the return to assess taxes that you owe.

Innocent Spouse Relief
By requesting innocent spouse relief, you can be relieved
of responsibility for paying tax, interest, and penalties if
your spouse (or former spouse) improperly reported items
or omitted items on your tax return. Generally, the tax, interest, and penalties that qualify for relief can only be collected from your spouse (or former spouse). However,
you are jointly and individually responsible for any tax, interest, and penalties that do not qualify for relief. The IRS
can collect these amounts from either you or your spouse
(or former spouse).
You must meet all of the following conditions to qualify
for innocent spouse relief.
1. You filed a joint return.
2. There is an understated tax on the return that is due
to erroneous items (defined later) of your spouse (or
former spouse).
3. You can show that when you signed the joint return
you did not know, and had no reason to know, that the
understated tax existed (or the extent to which the understated tax existed). See Actual Knowledge or Reason To Know, later.
4. Taking into account all the facts and circumstances, it
would be unfair to hold you liable for the understated
tax. See Indications of Unfairness for Innocent
Spouse Relief, later.
Innocent spouse relief will not be granted if the IRS
proves that you and your spouse (or former spouse) transferred property to one another as part of a fraudulent
scheme. A fraudulent scheme includes a scheme to defraud the IRS or another third party, such as a creditor, former spouse, or business partner.

Understated Tax
You have an understated tax if the IRS determined that
your total tax should be more than the amount that was
actually shown on your return.
Page 5

Erroneous Items

• Your educational background and business experi-

Erroneous items are either of the following.

• The extent of your participation in the activity that re-

1. Unreported income. This is any gross income item
received by your spouse (or former spouse) that is not
reported.
2. Incorrect deduction, credit, or basis. This is any
improper deduction, credit, or property basis claimed
by your spouse (or former spouse).
The following are examples of erroneous items.

• The expense for which the deduction is taken was

never paid or incurred. For example, your spouse, a
cash-basis taxpayer, deducted $10,000 of advertising
expenses on Schedule C of your joint Form 1040, but
never paid for any advertising.

• The expense does not qualify as a deductible ex-

pense. For example, your spouse claimed a business
fee deduction of $10,000 that was for the payment of
state fines. Fines are not deductible.

• No factual argument can be made to support the de-

ductibility of the expense. For example, your spouse
claimed $4,000 for security costs related to a home office, which were actually veterinary and food costs for
your family's two dogs.

Actual Knowledge or Reason To
Know
You knew or had reason to know of an understated tax if:

• You actually knew of the understated tax, or
• A reasonable person in similar circumstances would
have known of the understated tax.

Actual knowledge. If you actually knew about an erroneous item that belongs to your spouse (or former spouse),
the relief discussed here does not apply to any part of the
understated tax due to that item. You and your spouse (or
former spouse) remain jointly liable for that part of the understated tax. For information about the criteria for determining whether you actually knew about an erroneous
item, see Actual Knowledge under Separation of Liability
Relief, later.
Reason to know. If you had reason to know about an erroneous item that belongs to your spouse (or former
spouse), the relief discussed here does not apply to any
part of the understated tax due to that item. You and your
spouse (or former spouse) remain jointly liable for that
part of the understated tax.
The IRS will consider all facts and circumstances in determining whether you had reason to know of an understated tax due to an erroneous item. The facts and circumstances include.

• The nature of the erroneous item and the amount of
the erroneous item relative to other items.

• The financial situation of you and your spouse (or former spouse).

Page 6

ence.

sulted in the erroneous item.

• Whether you failed to ask, at or before the time the return was signed, about items on the return or omitted
from the return that a reasonable person would question.

• Whether the erroneous item represented a departure
from a recurring pattern reflected in prior years' returns (for example, omitted income from an investment regularly reported on prior years' returns).

Partial relief when a portion of an erroneous item is
unknown. You may qualify for partial relief if, at the time
you filed your return, you had no knowledge or reason to
know of a portion of an erroneous item. You will be relieved of the understated tax due to that portion of the item
if all other requirements are met for that portion.
Example. At the time you signed your joint return, you
knew that your spouse did not report $5,000 of gambling
winnings. The IRS examined your tax return several
months after you filed it and determined that your spouse's unreported gambling winnings were actually $25,000.
You established that you did not know about, and had no
reason to know about, the additional $20,000 because of
the way your spouse handled gambling winnings. The understated tax due to the $20,000 will qualify for innocent
spouse relief if you meet the other requirements. The understated tax due to the $5,000 of gambling winnings you
knew about will not qualify for relief.

Indications of Unfairness for Innocent
Spouse Relief
The IRS will consider all of the facts and circumstances of
the case in order to determine whether it is unfair to hold
you responsible for the understated tax.
The following are examples of factors the IRS will consider.

• Whether you received a significant benefit (defined

below), either directly or indirectly, from the understated tax.

• Whether your spouse (or former spouse) deserted
you.

• Whether you and your spouse have been divorced or
separated.

• Whether you received a benefit on the return from the
understated tax.

For other factors, see Factors for Determining Whether To
Grant Equitable Relief under Equitable Relief, later.
Significant benefit. A significant benefit is any benefit in
excess of normal support. Normal support depends on
your particular circumstances. Evidence of a direct or indirect benefit may consist of transfers of property or rights to
Publication 971 (December 2021)

property, including transfers that may be received several
years after the year of the understated tax.

Limitations on Relief

Example. You receive money from your spouse that is
beyond normal support. The money can be traced to your
spouse's lottery winnings that were not reported on your
joint return. You will be considered to have received a significant benefit from that income. This is true even if your
spouse gives you the money several years after he or she
received it.

• The IRS proves that you and your spouse (or former

Separation of Liability Relief
Under this type of relief, the understated tax (plus interest
and penalties) on your joint return is allocated between
you and your spouse (or former spouse). The understated
tax allocated to you is generally the amount you are responsible for.
This type of relief is available for liabilities resulting from
understated tax. However, refunds are not allowed for any
liabilities that have been paid.

Even if you meet the requirements discussed previously,
separation of liability relief will not be granted in the following situations.
spouse) transferred assets to one another as part of a
fraudulent scheme. A fraudulent scheme includes a
scheme to defraud the IRS or another third party, such
as a creditor, former spouse, or business partner.

• The IRS proves that at the time you signed your joint

return, you had actual knowledge (explained below) of
any erroneous items giving rise to the deficiency that
were allocable to your spouse (or former spouse). For
the definition of erroneous items, see Erroneous Items
under Innocent Spouse Relief, earlier.

• Your spouse (or former spouse) transferred property
to you to avoid tax or the payment of tax. See Transfers of Property To Avoid Tax, later.

Actual Knowledge

• You are no longer married to, or are legally separated

The relief discussed here does not apply to any part of the
understated tax due to your spouse's (or former spouse's)
erroneous items of which you had actual knowledge. You
and your spouse (or former spouse) remain jointly and
severally liable for this part of the understated tax.

• You were not a member of the same household (ex-

If you had actual knowledge of only a portion of an erroneous item, the IRS will not grant relief for that portion of
the item.

To request separation of liability relief, you must have
filed a joint return and meet either of the following requirements at the time you file Form 8857.
from, the spouse with whom you filed the joint return
for which you are requesting relief. (Under this rule,
you are no longer married if you are widowed.)

plained below) as the spouse with whom you filed the
joint return at any time during the 12-month period
ending on the date you file Form 8857.

Members of the same household. You and your
spouse are not members of the same household if you are
living apart and are estranged. However, you and your
spouse are considered members of the same household if
any of the following conditions are met.
1. You and your spouse reside in the same dwelling.
2. You and your spouse reside in separate dwellings but
are not estranged, and one of you is temporarily absent from the other's household as explained in (3)
below.
3. Either spouse is temporarily absent from the household and it is reasonable to assume that the absent
spouse will return to the household, and the household or a substantially equivalent household is maintained in anticipation of the absent spouse's return.
Examples of temporary absences include absence
due to imprisonment, illness, business, vacation, military service, or education.
Burden of proof. You must be able to prove that you
meet all of the requirements for separation of liability relief
(except actual knowledge) and that you did not transfer
property to avoid tax (discussed later). You must also establish the basis for allocating the erroneous items.
Publication 971 (December 2021)

You had actual knowledge of an erroneous item if.

• You knew that an item of unreported income was re-

ceived. (This rule applies whether or not there was a
receipt of cash.)

• You knew of the facts that made an incorrect deduction or credit unallowable.

• For a false or inflated deduction, you knew that the expense was not incurred, or not incurred to the extent
shown on the tax return.

Knowledge of the source of an erroneous item is not
sufficient to establish actual knowledge. Also, your actual
knowledge may not be inferred when you merely had a
reason to know of the erroneous item. Similarly, the IRS
does not have to establish that you knew of the source of
an erroneous item in order to establish that you had actual
knowledge of the item itself.
Your actual knowledge of the proper tax treatment of an
erroneous item is not relevant for purposes of demonstrating that you had actual knowledge of that item. Neither is
your actual knowledge of how the erroneous item was
treated on the tax return. For example, if you knew that
your spouse received dividend income, relief is not available for that income even if you did not know it was taxable.
Example. Bill and Karen Green filed a joint return
showing Karen's wages of $50,000 and Bill's
Page 7

self-employment income of $10,000. The IRS audited
their return and found that Bill did not report $20,000 of
self-employment income. The additional income resulted
in a $6,000 understated tax, plus interest and penalties.
After obtaining a legal separation from Bill, Karen filed
Form 8857 to request separation of liability relief. The IRS
proved that Karen actually knew about the $20,000 of additional income at the time she signed the joint return. Bill
is liable for all of the understated tax, interest, and penalties because all of it was due to his unreported income.
Karen is also liable for the understated tax, interest, and
penalties due to the $20,000 of unreported income because she actually knew of the item. The IRS can collect
the entire $6,000 plus interest and penalties from either
Karen or Bill because they are jointly and individually liable for it.
Factors supporting actual knowledge. The IRS may
rely on all facts and circumstances in determining whether
you actually knew of an erroneous item at the time you
signed the return. The following are examples of factors
the IRS may use.

• Whether you made a deliberate effort to avoid learning
about the item in order to be shielded from liability.

• Whether you and your spouse (or former spouse)

jointly owned the property that resulted in the erroneous item.

You will not be considered to have had an ownership
interest in an item based solely on the operation of community property law. Rather, if you resided in a community
property state at the time the return was signed, you will
be considered to have had an ownership interest in an
item only if your name appeared on the ownership documents, or there otherwise is an indication that you asserted dominion and control over the item.
Example. Harry and Wanda live in Arizona, a community property state. After their marriage, Harry opens a
bank account in his name. Under the operation of the
community property state laws of Arizona, Wanda owns ½
of the bank account. However, Wanda does not have an
ownership interest in the account for purposes of demonstrating that Wanda had actual knowledge of an erroneous item because the account is not held in her name and
there is no other indication that she asserted dominion
and control over the item.
Exception for spousal abuse or domestic violence.
Even if you had actual knowledge, you may still qualify for
relief if you establish that:

• You were the victim of spousal abuse or domestic violence before signing the return, and

• Because of that abuse, you did not challenge the

treatment of any items on the return because you
were afraid your spouse (or former spouse) would retaliate against you.

If you establish that you signed your joint return under
duress (threat of harm or other form of coercion), then it is
not a joint return, and you are not liable for any tax shown
Page 8

on that return or any tax deficiency for that return. However, you may be required to file a separate return for that
tax year.

Transfers of Property To Avoid Tax
If your spouse (or former spouse) transfers property (or
the right to property) to you for the main purpose of avoiding tax or payment of tax, the tax liability allocated to you
will be increased by the fair market value of the property
on the date of the transfer. The increase may not be more
than the entire amount of the liability. A transfer will be
presumed to have as its main purpose the avoidance of
tax or payment of tax if the transfer is made after the date
that is 1 year before the date on which the IRS sent its first
letter of proposed deficiency. This presumption will not
apply if:

• The transfer was made under a divorce decree, separate maintenance agreement, or a written instrument
incident to such an agreement; or

• You establish that the transfer did not have as its main
purpose the avoidance of tax or payment of tax.

If the presumption does not apply, but the IRS can establish that the purpose of the transfer was the avoidance
of tax or payment of tax, the tax liability allocated to you
will be increased as explained above.

Equitable Relief
If you do not qualify for innocent spouse relief or separation of liability relief, you may still be relieved of responsibility for tax, interest, and penalties through equitable relief. If you did not file a joint return but did not qualify for
relief from liability for tax attributable to an item of community income, you may be eligible for equitable relief.
Unlike innocent spouse relief or separation of liability
relief, you can get equitable relief from an understated tax
(defined earlier under Innocent Spouse Relief) or an unpaid tax. An unpaid tax is an amount of tax you properly
reported on your return but you have not paid. For example, your joint 2018 return shows that you and your
spouse owed $5,000. You paid $2,000 with the return.
You have an unpaid tax of $3,000.

Conditions for Getting Equitable
Relief
In order to be considered for equitable relief from joint and
several liability, you must meet all of the following threshold conditions. In order to be considered for equitable relief from liability for tax attributable to an item of community income, you must meet all of the following threshold
conditions except for items 1 and 2.
1. You are not eligible for innocent spouse relief or separation of liability relief.
2. You filed a joint return for the tax year(s) at issue.
Publication 971 (December 2021)

3. You timely filed your claim for relief. See When To File
Form 8857, earlier.
4. You and your spouse (or former spouse) did not
transfer assets to one another as a part of a fraudulent scheme. A fraudulent scheme includes a scheme
to defraud the IRS or another third party, such as a
creditor, former spouse, or business partner.
5. Your spouse (or former spouse) did not transfer property to you for the main purpose of avoiding tax or the
payment of tax. See Transfers of Property To Avoid
Tax, earlier, under Separation of Liability Relief.
6. You did not knowingly participate in the filing of a fraudulent joint return.
7. The income tax liability from which you seek relief is
attributable (either in full or in part) to an item of your
spouse (or former spouse) or an unpaid tax resulting
from your spouse’s (or former spouse’s) income. If the
liability is partially attributable to you, then relief can
only be considered for the part of the liability attributable to your spouse (or former spouse). The IRS will
consider granting relief regardless of whether the understated tax, deficiency, or unpaid tax is attributable
(in full or in part) to you if any of the following exceptions apply.
a. The item is attributable or partially attributable to
you solely due to the operation of community
property law. If you meet this exception, that item
will be considered attributable to your spouse (or
former spouse) for purposes of equitable relief.
b. If the item is titled in your name, the item is presumed to be attributable to you. However, you can
rebut this presumption based on the facts and circumstances.
c. You did not know, and had no reason to know,
that funds intended for the payment of tax were
misappropriated by your spouse (or former
spouse) for his or her benefit. If you meet this exception, the IRS will consider granting equitable
relief although the unpaid tax may be attributable
in part or in full to your item, and only to the extent
the funds intended for payment were taken by
your spouse (or former spouse).
d. You establish that you were the victim of spousal
abuse or domestic violence before the return was
filed, and that, as a result of the prior abuse, you
did not challenge the treatment of any items on
the return for fear of your spouse's (or former
spouse's) retaliation. If you meet this exception,
relief will be considered even though the understated tax or unpaid tax may be attributable in part or
in full to your item.
e. The item giving rise to the understated tax or deficiency is attributable to you, but you establish that
your spouse's (or former spouse's) fraud is the
reason for the erroneous item.

Publication 971 (December 2021)

Factors for Determining Whether To
Grant Equitable Relief
If you meet all the threshold conditions, the IRS will grant
equitable relief if you establish that it would be unfair to
hold you liable for the understated or unpaid tax. The IRS
will consider all facts and circumstances of your case in
determining whether it is unfair to hold you liable for all or
part of the unpaid income tax liability or deficiency, and
whether full or partial equitable relief should be granted.
The factors listed below are designed as guides and not
intended to be an exclusive list. Other factors relevant to
your case may also be considered. In evaluating your
claim for relief, no one factor or a majority of factors necessarily determines the outcome. The degree of importance of each factor varies depending on your facts and
circumstances. Abuse or the exercise of financial control
by your spouse (or former spouse) is a factor that may impact the other factors, as described below. Factors the
IRS will consider include the following.

Marital Status
The IRS will consider whether you are no longer married
to your spouse as of the date the IRS makes its determination. If you are still married to your spouse, this factor is
neutral. If you are no longer married to your spouse, this
factor will weigh in favor of relief. You will be treated as
being no longer married to your spouse only in the following situations.

• You are divorced from your spouse.
• You are legally separated from your spouse under applicable state law.

• You are a widow or widower and are not an heir to

your spouse's estate that would have sufficient assets
to pay the tax liability.

• You have not been a member of the same household

as your spouse at any time during the 12-month period ending on the date the IRS makes its determination. For these purposes, a temporary absence (for
example, due to imprisonment, illness, business, military service, or education) is not considered separation if the absent spouse is expected to return to the
household. You are a member of the same household
as your spouse for any period in which both of you
maintain the same residence.

Economic Hardship
The IRS will consider whether you will suffer economic
hardship if relief is not granted. For purposes of this factor,
an economic hardship exists if satisfaction of the tax liability in whole or in part will cause you to be unable to pay
reasonable basic living expenses. The IRS will determine
whether you meet this factor based on the information you
provide in Part IV of Form 8857. If denying relief will cause
you to suffer economic hardship, this factor will weigh in
favor of relief. If denying relief will not cause you to suffer
economic hardship, this factor will be neutral.
Page 9

Knowledge or Reason To Know
Understated tax on a joint return. The IRS will consider whether you knew or had reason to know of the item
giving rise to the understated tax or deficiency as of the
date the joint return (including a joint amended return) was
filed, or the date you reasonably believed the joint return
was filed. If you did not know and had no reason to know
of the item giving rise to the understated tax, this factor
will weigh in favor of relief. If you knew or had reason to
know of the item giving rise to the understated tax, this
factor will weigh against relief. Actual knowledge of the
item giving rise to the understated tax or deficiency will not
be weighed more heavily than any other factor. Depending on the facts and circumstances, if you were abused by
your spouse or former spouse (as discussed later), or
your spouse (or former spouse) maintained control of the
household finances by restricting your access to financial
information, and because of the abuse or financial control,
you were not able to challenge the treatment of any items
on the joint return for fear of your spouse’s (or former
spouse’s) retaliation, this factor will weigh in favor of relief
even if you knew or had reason to know of the items giving
rise to the understated tax or deficiency.
Understated tax on a return other than a joint return.
The IRS will consider whether you knew or had reason to
know of an item of community income properly includible
in gross income, which, under item (3) discussed earlier
under Relief From Liability for Tax Attributable to an Item
of Community Income, would be treated as the income of
your spouse (or former spouse).
Unpaid tax. In the case of an income tax liability that was
properly reported but not paid, the IRS will consider
whether (as of the date the return was filed or the date you
reasonably believed the return was filed) you knew or had
reason to know that your spouse (or former spouse) would
not or could not pay the tax liability at that time or within a
reasonable period of time after the filing of the return. This
factor will weigh in favor of relief if you reasonably expected your spouse (or former spouse) to pay the tax liability
reported on the return. A reasonable expectation of payment will be presumed if the spouses submitted a request
for an installment agreement to pay the tax reported as
due on the return. To benefit from the presumption, the request for an installment agreement must be filed by the
later of 90 days after the due date for payment of the tax,
or 90 days after the return was filed. The request must detail the plan for paying the tax, interest, and penalties, satisfy the liability within a reasonable time; and not be unreasonable for you to believe that your spouse (or former
spouse) will be able to make the payments contemplated
in the requested installment agreement.
This factor will weigh against relief if, based on the facts
and circumstances of the case, it was not reasonable for
you to believe that your spouse (or former spouse) would
or could pay the tax liability shown on the return. For example, if prior to the return being filed, or the date you reasonably believed the return was filed, you knew of your
spouse’s (or former spouse’s) prior bankruptcies, financial
difficulties, or other issues with the IRS or other creditors,
Page 10

or were otherwise aware of difficulties in timely paying
bills, then this factor will generally weigh against relief.
Depending on the facts and circumstances, if you were
abused by your spouse or former spouse (as discussed
later), or your spouse (or former spouse) maintained control of the household finances by restricting your access to
financial information, and because of the abuse or financial control, you were not able to question the payment of
the taxes reported as due on the return or challenge your
spouse’s (or former spouse’s) assurance regarding payment of the taxes for fear of his or her retaliation, this factor will weigh in favor of relief even if you knew or had reason to know about your spouse’s (or former spouse’s)
intent or ability to pay the taxes due.
In the case of an unpaid tax on an amended return that
reports a liability based on items not properly reported on
the original return, the initial inquiry is whether (as of the
date the amended return was filed, or the date you reasonably believed the amended return was filed) you reasonably expected that your spouse (or former spouse)
would pay the tax within a reasonable period of time. If so,
this factor will weigh in favor of relief. However, if it was
not reasonable for you to expect that your spouse (or former spouse) would pay the tax, your knowledge or reason
to know of the understated tax on the original return will
also be considered. If you knew or had reason to know of
the item giving rise to the understated tax on the original
return, then this factor will weigh against relief. If you did
not know or have reason to know of the item, then this factor will weigh in favor of relief.
Reason to know. The facts and circumstances that are
considered in determining whether you had reason to
know of an understated tax, or reason to know whether
your spouse (or former spouse) could or would pay the reported tax liability, include, but are not limited, to the following.

• Your level of education.
• Any deceit or evasiveness of your spouse (or former
spouse).

• Your degree of involvement in the activity generating
the income tax liability.

• Your involvement in business or household financial
matters.

• Your business or financial expertise.
• Any lavish or unusual expenditures compared with
past spending levels.

Example. You and your spouse filed a joint 2018 return. That return showed you owed $10,000. You had
$5,000 of your own money and you took out a loan to pay
the other $5,000. You gave two checks for $5,000 each to
your spouse to pay the $10,000 liability. Without telling
you, your spouse took the $5,000 loan and spent it on
himself. You and your spouse were divorced in 2019. In
addition, you had no knowledge or reason to know at the
time you signed the return that the tax would not be paid.
These facts indicate to the IRS that it may be unfair to hold
you liable for the $5,000 unpaid tax. The IRS will consider
Publication 971 (December 2021)

these facts, together with all of the other facts and circumstances, to determine whether to grant you equitable relief
from the $5,000 unpaid tax.
Abuse by your spouse (or former spouse). For purposes of the equitable relief rules, if you establish that you
were the victim of abuse (not amounting to duress), then
depending on the facts and circumstances of your situation, the abuse may result in certain factors weighing in favor of relief when otherwise the factor may have weighed
against relief. Abuse comes in many forms and can include physical, psychological, sexual, or emotional abuse,
including efforts to control, isolate, humiliate, and intimidate you, or to undermine your ability to reason independently and be able to do what is required under the tax
laws. The IRS will consider all the facts and circumstances in determining whether you were abused. The IRS will
also consider the impact of your spouse’s (or former spouse’s) alcohol or drug abuse in determining whether you
were abused. Depending on the facts and circumstances,
abuse of your child or other family member living in the
household may constitute abuse of you.

Legal Obligation
The IRS will consider whether you or your spouse (or former spouse) has a legal obligation to pay the outstanding
federal income tax liability. For purposes of this factor, a
legal obligation is an obligation arising from a divorce decree or other legally binding agreement. This factor will
weigh in favor of relief if your former spouse has the sole
legal obligation to pay the outstanding income tax liability
pursuant to a divorce decree or agreement. This factor will
be neutral if you knew or had reason to know, when entering into the divorce decree or agreement, that your former
spouse would not pay the income tax liability. This factor
will weigh against relief if you have the sole legal obligation. The fact that your spouse (or former spouse) has
been relieved of liability for the taxes at issue as a result of
a discharge in bankruptcy is disregarded in determining
whether you have the sole legal obligation. This factor will
be neutral if, based on an agreement or consent order,
both spouses have a legal obligation to pay the outstanding income tax liability, the spouses are not separated or
divorced, or the divorce decree or agreement is silent as
to any obligation to pay the outstanding income tax liability.

Significant Benefit
The IRS will consider whether you significantly benefited
from the unpaid income tax liability or understated tax. A
significant benefit is any benefit in excess of normal support. For example, if you enjoyed the benefits of a lavish
lifestyle, such as owning luxury assets and taking expensive vacations, this factor will weigh against relief. If, however, your spouse (or former spouse) controlled the
household and business finances or there was abuse (discussed earlier) such that he or she made the decision on
spending funds for a lavish lifestyle, then this mitigates
this factor so that it is neutral. If only your spouse (or
Publication 971 (December 2021)

former spouse) significantly benefitted from the unpaid tax
or understatement, and you had little or no benefit, or your
spouse (or former spouse) enjoyed the benefit to your detriment, this factor will weigh in favor of relief. If the amount
of unpaid tax or understated tax was small such that neither spouse received a significant benefit, then this factor
is neutral. Whether the amount of unpaid tax or understated tax is small such that neither spouse received a significant benefit will vary depending on the facts and circumstances of each case.

Compliance With Income Tax Laws
The IRS will consider whether you have made a good faith
effort to comply with the income tax laws in the tax years
following the tax year or years to which the request for relief relates.
If you are compliant for tax years after being divorced
from your spouse, then this factor will weigh in favor of relief. If you are not compliant, then this factor will weigh
against relief. If you made a good faith effort to comply
with the tax laws but were unable to fully comply, then this
factor will be neutral. For example, if you timely filed an income tax return but were unable to fully pay the tax liability
due to your poor financial or economic situation after the
divorce, then this factor will be neutral.
If you remain married to your spouse, whether or not legally separated or living apart, and continue to file joint returns with your spouse after requesting relief, then this
factor will be neutral if the joint returns are compliant with
the tax laws. If the joint returns are not compliant with the
tax laws, then this factor will weigh against relief.
If you remain married to your spouse but file separate
returns, this factor will weigh in favor of relief if you are
compliant with the tax laws. If you are not compliant with
the tax laws, then this factor will weigh against relief. If you
made a good faith effort to comply with the tax laws but
were unable to fully comply, then this factor will be neutral.
For example, if you timely filed an income tax return but
were unable to fully pay the tax liability due to your poor
financial or economic situation as a result of being separated or living apart from your spouse, then this factor will be
neutral.

Mental or Physical Health
The IRS will consider whether you were in poor physical
or mental health. This factor will weigh in favor of relief if
you were in poor mental or physical health at one of the
following times.

• At the time the return or returns for which the request
for relief relates were filed.

• At the time you reasonably believed the return or returns were filed.

• At the time you request relief.
The IRS will consider the nature, extent, and duration of
your condition, including the ongoing economic impact of
Page 11

your illness. If you were in neither poor physical nor poor
mental health, this factor is neutral.

Refunds
If you are granted relief, refunds are:

(or former spouse) made. For example, withholding tax
and estimated tax payments cannot be refunded because
they are considered made with the joint return. However,
you may be entitled to a refund of your portion of a joint
overpayment from another year that was applied to the
joint tax for a different year. You will need to show your
portion of the joint overpayment.

• Permitted under innocent spouse relief and equitable

The amount of your refund is limited. Read the following chart to find out the limit.

• Not permitted under separation of liability relief.

IF you file Form 8857...

THEN the refund cannot be
more than...

within 3 years after filing your
return

the part of the tax paid within 3
years (plus any extension of
time for filing your return) before
you filed Form 8857.

relief, as explained later under Limit on Amount of Refund; and

Proof Required
The IRS will only refund payments you made with your
own money. However, you must provide proof that you
made the payments with your own money. Examples of
proof are a copy of your bank statement or a canceled
check. No proof is required if your individual refund was
used by the IRS to pay a tax you owed on a joint tax return
for another year.

after the 3-year period, but
the tax you paid within 2 years
within 2 years from the time you immediately before you filed
paid the tax
Form 8857.

Limit on Amount of Refund
You are not eligible for refunds of payments made with the
joint return, joint payments, or payments that your spouse

Page 12

Publication 971 (December 2021)

Flowcharts
The following flowcharts provide a quick way for determining whether you may qualify for relief. But do not rely on
these flowcharts alone. Also read the earlier discussions.

Figure A. Do You Qualify for Innocent Spouse Relief?
Start Here
No

Did you file a joint return for the year you want
relief?

You do not qualify for innocent
spouse relief but you may qualify for
relief from liability for tax attributable
to an item of community income. See
Community Property Laws, earlier.

Yes

Will you file Form 8857 no later than 2 years
after the first IRS attempt to collect the tax
from you? 1

No

You do not qualify for innocent
spouse relief but you may qualify for
equitable relief. See Figure C.

Yes

Does your joint return have an understated tax
due to erroneous items of your spouse?

No

Yes
At the time you signed the joint return, did you
know or have reason to know that there was an
understated tax?

Yes 2

No
Are you able to show, based on the facts and
circumstances, that it would be unfair to hold
you liable for the understated tax?

No

Yes
You do not qualify for innocent spouse relief; go
to Figure B.

You may qualify for innocent spouse relief.

1

Collection activities that may start the 2-year period are described earlier under How To Request Relief.

2

You may qualify for partial relief if, at the time you filed your return, you knew or had reason to know of only a portion of an erroneous item.

Publication 971 (December 2021)

Page 13

Figure B. Do You Qualify for Separation of Liability Relief?
Start Here
No

Did you file a joint return for the year you want
relief?

You do not qualify for separation of
liability relief but you may qualify for
relief from liability for tax attributable
to an item of community income. See
Community Property Laws, earlier.

Yes
Will you file Form 8857 no later than 2 years
after the first IRS attempt to collect the tax
from you? *

No

You do not qualify for separation of
liability relief but you may qualify for
equitable relief. See Figure C.

Yes
No
Does your joint return have an understated tax?
Yes

No

Are you still married to the spouse with whom
you filed the joint return? (If that spouse is
deceased, answer “No.”)
Yes

Yes

Are you legally separated from the spouse with
whom you filed the joint return?
No
Were you a member of the same household as
the spouse with whom you filed the joint return
at any time during the 12-month period ending
on the date you file Form 8857?

Yes

No
You do not qualify for separation of liability
relief; go to Figure C.

You may qualify for separation of liability relief.

* Collection activities that may start the 2-year period are described earlier under How To Request Relief.

Page 14

Publication 971 (December 2021)

Figure C. Do You Qualify for Equitable Relief?
Start Here
Are you eligible for innocent spouse relief,
Yes
separation of liability relief, or relief from liability
for tax attributable to an item of community income?
No
Does your return have an understated or
unpaid tax?

No

Yes
Are you able to show it would be unfair to hold
you liable for the understated or unpaid tax?

No

Yes
Did you and your spouse (or former spouse)
transfer property to one another as part of a
fraudulent scheme?

Yes

No
Did your spouse (or former spouse) transfer
property to you for the main purpose of
avoiding tax or the payment of tax?

Yes

No
Did you knowingly participate in the filing of a
fraudulent joint return?

Yes

No
Is the income tax liability from which you seek
relief due (in full or in part) to one of the following?

No

1

• An item of your spouse (or former spouse) with
whom you filed the joint return.
• An unpaid tax resulting from your spouse’s (or
former spouse’s) income.
Yes

You do not qualify for equitable relief.

You may qualify for equitable relief.

1
2

2

.
You may qualify for equitable relief if you meet any of the exceptions to condition (7) discussed earlier under Conditions for Getting Equitable Relief.
You must file Form 8857 by the filing deadlines explained earlier in Exception for equitable relief under How To Request Relief.

Publication 971 (December 2021)

Page 15

Questions & Answers
This section answers questions commonly asked by taxpayers about innocent spouse relief.
What is joint and several liability?
When you file a joint income tax return, the law makes both you and your
spouse responsible for the entire tax
liability. This is called joint and several
liability. Joint and several liability applies not only to the tax liability you
show on the return but also to any additional tax liability the IRS determines
to be due, even if the additional tax is
due to the income, deductions, or
credits of your spouse or former
spouse. You remain jointly and severally liable for taxes, and the IRS still
can collect from you, even if you later
divorce and the divorce decree states
that your former spouse will be solely
responsible for the tax.
How can I get relief from joint and
several liability?
There are three types of relief for filers
of joint returns: “innocent spouse relief,” “separation of liability relief,” and
“equitable relief.” Each type has different requirements. They are explained
separately below.
What are the rules for innocent
spouse relief?
To qualify for innocent spouse relief,
you must meet all of the following conditions.

• You must have filed a joint return
which has an understated tax.

• The understated tax must be due

to erroneous items of your spouse
(or former spouse).

• You must establish that at the time

you signed the joint return, you did
not know, and had no reason to
know, that there was an understated tax.

• Taking into account all of the facts
and circumstances, it would be
unfair to hold you liable for the understated tax.

Page 16

• You must request relief within 2

years after the date on which the
IRS first began collection activity
against you.

What are “erroneous items”?
Erroneous items are any deductions,
credits, or bases that are incorrectly
stated on the return, and any income
that is not properly reported on the return.
What is an “understated tax”?
You have an understated tax if the IRS
determined that your total tax should
be more than the amount actually
shown on your return. For example,
you reported total tax on your 2018 return of $2,500. The IRS determined in
an audit of your 2018 return that the
total tax should be $3,000. You have a
$500 understated tax.
Will I qualify for innocent spouse
relief in any situation where there
is an understated tax?
No. There are many situations in
which you may owe tax that is related
to your spouse (or former spouse), but
not be eligible for innocent spouse relief. For example, you and your
spouse file a joint return on which you
report $10,000 of income and deductions, but you knew that your spouse
was not reporting $5,000 of dividends.
You are not eligible for innocent
spouse relief because you have
knowledge of the understated tax.
What are the rules for separation
of liability relief?
Under this type of relief, you allocate
(separate) the understated tax (plus
interest and penalties) on your joint return between you and your spouse (or
former spouse). The understated tax
allocated to you is generally the
amount you are responsible for. To
qualify for separation of liability relief,
you must have filed a joint return and

meet either of the following requirements at the time you file Form 8857.

• You are no longer married to, or
are legally separated from, the
spouse with whom you filed the
joint return for which you are requesting relief. (Under this rule,
you are no longer married if you
are widowed.)

• You were not a member of the

same household as the spouse
with whom you filed the joint return
at any time during the 12-month
period ending on the date you file
Form 8857.

In addition to the above requirements, you must file a Form 8857
within 2 years after the date on which
the IRS first began collection activity
against you.
Why would a request for
separation of liability relief be
denied?
Even if you meet the requirements listed earlier, a request for separation of
liability relief will not be granted in the
following situations.

• The IRS proves that you and your
spouse (or former spouse) transferred assets to one another as
part of a fraudulent scheme.

• The IRS proves that at the time

you signed your joint return, you
had actual knowledge of any erroneous items giving rise to the deficiency that are allocable to your
spouse (or former spouse).

• Your spouse (or former spouse)
transferred property to you to
avoid tax or the payment of tax.

What are the rules for equitable
relief?
Equitable relief is only available if you
meet all of the following conditions.

• You do not qualify for innocent

spouse relief, separation of liability
relief, or relief from liability for tax
attributable to an item of community income.

Publication 971 (December 2021)

• You have an understated tax or

How do I request relief?

• You and your spouse (or former

File Form 8857 to ask the IRS for relief. You must file an additional Form
8857 if you are requesting relief for
more than 6 years.

• Your spouse (or former spouse)

When should I file Form 8857?

• You did not knowingly participate

If you are requesting innocent spouse
relief or separation of liability relief, file
Form 8857 no later than 2 years after
the date on which the IRS first began
collection activities against you.

unpaid tax. See Note, later.

spouse) did not transfer assets to
one another as a part of a fraudulent scheme.

did not transfer property to you for
the main purpose of avoiding tax
or the payment of tax.
in the filing of a fraudulent joint return.

• The income tax liability from which
you seek relief is attributable (either in full or in part) to an item of
your spouse (or former spouse) or
an unpaid tax resulting from your
spouse's (or former spouse's) income. For exceptions to this condition, see item (7) under Conditions for Getting Equitable Relief,
earlier.

• You timely file Form 8857 as explained earlier in Exception for
equitable relief under When To
File Form 8857.

• The IRS determines that it is unfair
to hold you liable for the understated or unpaid tax taking into account all the facts and circumstances.

Note. Unlike innocent spouse relief or
separation of liability relief, if you qualify for equitable relief, you can also get
relief from an unpaid tax. (An unpaid
tax is tax that is properly shown on the
return, but has not been paid.)
How do state community property
laws affect my ability to qualify for
relief?
Community property states are Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin. Generally,
community property laws provide that
you and your spouse are both entitled
to one-half of your total community income and expenses. However, community property laws are not taken
into account in determining whether
an item belongs to you or to your
spouse (or former spouse) if you request relief from joint and several liability.
Publication 971 (December 2021)

If you are requesting equitable relief, see Exception for equitable relief
under When To File Form 8857, earlier, for when to file Form 8857.
If you are requesting relief from liability for tax attributable to an item of
community income, see How and
When To Request Relief under Community Property Laws, earlier, for
when to file Form 8857.
Where should I file Form 8857?
Use one of the addresses or fax number shown in the Instructions for Form
8857.
I am currently undergoing an
examination of my return. How do I
request innocent spouse relief?
File Form 8857 at one of the addresses or send it to the fax number
shown in the Instructions for Form
8857. Do not file it with the employee
assigned to examine your return.
What if the IRS has given me
notice that it will levy my account
for the tax liability and I decide to
request relief?
Generally, the IRS has 10 years to collect an amount you owe. This is the
collection statute of limitations. By
law, the IRS is not allowed to collect
from you after the 10-year period
ends.
If you request relief for any tax year,
the IRS cannot collect from you for
that year while your request is pending. But interest and penalties continue to accrue. Your request is generally considered pending from the date
the IRS receives your Form 8857 until
the date your request is resolved. This

includes the time the Tax Court is considering your request.
After your case is resolved, the IRS
can begin or resume collecting from
you any tax for which you are determined to remain responsible. The
10-year period will be increased by
the amount of time your request for relief was pending plus 60 days. See
Pub. 594 for more information.
What is “injured spouse relief”?
Injured spouse relief is different from
innocent spouse relief. When a joint
return is filed and the refund is used to
pay one spouse's past-due federal
tax, state income tax, state unemployment compensation debts, child support, spousal support, or federal nontax debt, such as a student loan, the
other spouse may be considered an
injured spouse. The injured spouse
can get back his or her share of the
joint overpayment using Form 8379,
Injured Spouse Allocation.
You are considered an injured
spouse if:
1. You are not legally obligated to
pay the past-due amount, and
2. You meet any of the following
conditions.
a. You made and reported tax
payments (such as federal income tax withholding or estimated tax payments).
b. You had earned income (such
as wages, salaries, or self-employment income) and
claimed the earned income
credit or the additional child
tax credit.
c. You claimed a refundable tax
credit, such as the health coverage tax credit or the refundable credit for prior year minimum tax.
Note. If your residence was in a community property state at any time during the year and the state recognizes
your marriage, you may file Form
8379 even if only item (1) above applies.

Page 17

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go to
IRS.gov to find resources that can help
you right away.
Preparing and filing your tax return.
After receiving all your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.);
unemployment compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements
(Form 1099-G); and interest, dividend,
and retirement statements from banks
and investment firms (Forms 1099),
you have several options to choose
from to prepare and file your tax return.
You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.

returns. Go to IRS.gov/VITA,
download the free IRS2Go app, or
call 800-906-9887 for information
on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the

Elderly (TCE) program offers free
tax help for all taxpayers, particularly those who are 60 years of age
and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about
pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors. Go to
IRS.gov/TCE, download the free
IRS2Go app, or call 888-227-7669
for information on free tax return
preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S.

▶ Tips and links to help you determine if you qualify for tax credits
and deductions.
▶ A progress tracker.
▶ A self-employment tax feature.
▶ Automatic calculation of taxable social security benefits.

• The First-Time Homebuyer Credit

Account Look-up (IRS.gov/
HomeBuyer) tool provides information on your repayments and account balance.

• The Sales Tax Deduction

Calculator (IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if
you itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

Armed Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax
Getting answers to your tax
service offered by the Department
questions. On IRS.gov, you
of Defense through Military Onecan get up-to-date information
Source. For more information, go
on current events and changes in tax
to MilitaryOneSource
For 2021, if you received an
law.
(MilitaryOneSource.mil/Tax).
Economic Impact Payment
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable • IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to
CAUTION (EIP),
refer to your Notice
help you get answers to some of
Forms,
which can be completed
1444-C, Your 2021 Economic Impact
the most common tax questions.
online
and
then
filed
electronically
Payment. If you received Advance
regardless of income.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax
Child Tax Credit payments, refer to
Assistant, a tool that will ask you
your Letter 6419.
Using online tools to help prepare
questions and, based on your inyour return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for
put, provide answers on a number
Free options for tax preparation. the following.
of tax law topics.
Go to IRS.gov to see your options for
The
Earned
Income
Tax
Credit
•
preparing and filing your return online
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, inAssistant (IRS.gov/EITCAssistant)
or in your local community, if you qualstructions, and publications. You
determines if you’re eligible for the
ify, which include the following.
will find details on 2021 tax
earned income credit (EIC).
changes and hundreds of interac• Free File. This program lets you
The
Online
EIN
Application
•
tive links to help you find answers
prepare and file your federal indi(IRS.gov/EIN)
helps
you
get
an
to your questions.
vidual income tax return for free usemployer identification number
ing brand-name tax-prepara• You may also be able to access tax
(EIN) at no cost.
tion-and-filing software or Free File
law information in your electronic
fillable forms. However, state tax
• The Tax Withholding Estimator
filing software.
preparation may not be available
(IRS.gov/W4app) makes it easier
through Free File. Go to IRS.gov/
for everyone to pay the correct
FreeFile to see if you qualify for
amount of tax during the year. The Need someone to prepare your tax
free online federal tax preparation,
tool is a convenient, online way to return? There are various types of
e-filing, and direct deposit or paycheck and tailor your withholding. tax return preparers, including tax preparers, enrolled agents, certified public
ment options.
It’s more user-friendly for taxpayaccountants
(CPAs), attorneys, and
ers, including retirees and self-em• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax
many others who don’t have professioployed
individuals.
The
features
inAssistance (VITA) program offers
nal credentials. If you choose to have
clude the following.
free tax help to people with
someone
prepare your tax return,
▶ Easy to understand language.
low-to-moderate incomes, persons
▶ The ability to switch between
with disabilities, and limited-Engscreens,
correct previous entries,
lish-speaking taxpayers who need
and
skip
screens
that don’t apply.
help preparing their own tax

!

Page 18

Publication 971 (December 2021)

choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax ways protect your identity when using dedicated eBook readers, and eBook
preparer is:
any social networking site.
functionality may not operate as intenThe
following
IRS
YouTube
chanded.
• Primarily responsible for the overall
nels provide short, informative videos
substantive accuracy of your reon various tax-related topics in English, Access your online account (inditurn,
vidual taxpayers only). Go to
Spanish, and ASL.
IRS.gov/Account to securely access in• Required to sign the return, and
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
formation about your federal tax ac• Required to include their preparer
count.
Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
•
tax identification number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always • Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
signs the return, you're ultimately responsible for providing all the informa- Watching IRS videos. The IRS Video
tion required for the preparer to accu- portal (IRSVideos.gov) contains video
rately prepare your return. Anyone paid and audio presentations for individuals,
to prepare tax returns for others should small businesses, and tax professiohave a thorough understanding of tax nals.
matters. For more information on how
Online tax information in other lanto choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for
guages. You can find information on
Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov. IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t

• View the amount you owe and a
breakdown by tax year.

• See payment plan details or apply
for a new payment plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of
payment history and any pending
or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including

key data from your most recent tax
return, your EIP amounts, and transcripts.

Advance child tax credit payments. your native language.
From July through December 2021, Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter
advance payments were sent automat- (OPI) Service. The IRS is committed • View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
ically to taxpayers with qualifying chil- to serving our multilingual customers
dren who met certain criteria. The ad- by offering OPI services. The OPI • Approve or reject authorization revance child tax credit payments were Service is a federally funded program
quests from tax professionals.
early payments of up to 50% of the es- and is available at Taxpayer Assistimated child tax credit that taxpayers tance Centers (TACs), other IRS offi- • View your address on file or manage your communication preferenmay properly claim on their 2021 re- ces, and every VITA/TCE return site.
ces.
turns. Go to IRS.gov/AdvCTC for more The OPI Service is accessible in more
information about these payments and than 350 languages.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your
how they can affect your taxes.
tax professional submit an authorizaAccessibility Helpline available for
Coronavirus. Go
to
IRS.gov/ taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpay- tion request to access your individual
Coronavirus for links to information on ers who need information about acces- taxpayer IRS online account. For more
go
to
IRS.gov/
the impact of the coronavirus, as well sibility services can call 833-690-0598. information,
TaxProAccount.
as tax relief available for individuals The Accessibility Helpline can answer
and families, small and large busi- questions related to current and future Using direct deposit. The fastest
nesses, and tax-exempt organizations. accessibility products and services way to receive a tax refund is to file
Employers can register to use Busi- available in alternative media formats electronically and choose direct deness Services Online. The Social (for example, braille, large print, audio, posit, which securely and electronically
transfers your refund directly into your
Security Administration (SSA) offers etc.).
financial
account. Direct deposit also
online service at SSA.gov/employer for Getting tax forms and publications.
avoids
the
possibility that your check
fast, free, and secure online W-2 filing Go to IRS.gov/Forms to view, downcould
be
lost,
stolen, or returned undeoptions to CPAs, accountants, enrolled load, or print all of the forms, instrucliverable
to
the
IRS. Eight in 10 taxpayagents, and individuals who process tions, and publications you may need.
ers
use
direct
deposit
to receive their
Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement, Or, you can go to IRS.gov/OrderForms
refunds.
If
you
don’t
have
a bank acand Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and to place an order.
IRS.gov/DirectDeposit
for
count,
go
to
Tax Statement.
more information on where to find a
Getting tax publications and inIRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/ structions in eBook format. You can bank or credit union that can open an
SocialMedia to see the various social also download and view popular tax account online.
media tools the IRS uses to share the publications and instructions (including
latest information on tax changes, the Instructions for Form 1040) on mo- Getting a transcript of your return.
scam alerts, initiatives, products, and bile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/ The quickest way to get a copy of your
tax transcript is to go to IRS.gov/
services. At the IRS, privacy and se- eBooks.
Transcripts. Click on either “Get Trancurity are our highest priority. We use
script Online” or “Get Transcript by
these tools to share public information
Note. IRS eBooks have been tes- Mail” to order a free copy of your tranwith you. Don’t post your social secur- ted using Apple's iBooks for iPad. Our
ity number (SSN) or other confidential eBooks haven’t been tested on other script. If you prefer, you can order your
transcript by calling 800-908-9946.
information on social media sites. AlPublication 971 (December 2021)

Page 19

Reporting and resolving your how to make a payment using any of Filing an amended return. You can
tax-related identity theft issues.
the following options.
now file Form 1040-X electronically
with tax filing software to amend 2019
• Tax-related identity theft happens
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual
or 2020 Forms 1040 and 1040-SR. To
when someone steals your pertax bill or estimated tax payment
do so, you must have e-filed your origisonal information to commit tax
directly from your checking or savnal 2019 or 2020 return. Amended refraud. Your taxes can be affected if
ings account at no cost to you.
turns for all prior years must be mailed.
your SSN is used to file a fraudu• Debit or Credit Card: Choose an
Go to IRS.gov/Form1040X for informalent return or to claim a refund or
approved payment processor to
tion and updates.
credit.
pay online or by phone.
Checking the status of your amen• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal:
ded return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to
with taxpayers by email, text mesSchedule a payment when filing
track the status of Form 1040-X amensages, telephone calls, or social
your federal taxes using tax return
ded returns.
media channels to request perpreparation software or through a
sonal or financial information. This
tax professional.
Note. It can take up to 3 weeks
includes requests for personal
from the date you filed your amended
• Electronic Federal Tax Payment
identification numbers (PINs),
return for it to show up in our system,
System: Best option for busipasswords, or similar information
and processing it can take up to 16
nesses. Enrollment is required.
for credit cards, banks, or other fiweeks.
nancial accounts.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your
payment to the address listed on
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the
Understanding an IRS notice or letthe notice or instructions.
IRS Identity Theft Central webter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/
page, for information on identity
• Cash: You may be able to pay your Notices to find additional information
theft and data security protection
about responding to an IRS notice or
taxes with cash at a participating
for taxpayers, tax professionals,
letter.
retail store.
and businesses. If your SSN has
You can use Schedule LEP, Re• Same-Day Wire: You may be able quest for Change in Language Preferbeen lost or stolen or you suspect
to do same-day wire from your fiyou’re a victim of tax-related idenence, to state a preference to receive
nancial institution. Contact your fi- notices, letters, or other written comtity theft, you can learn what steps
nancial institution for availability,
you should take.
munications from the IRS in an alternacost, and time frames.
tive
language, when these are availa• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP
ble.
Once your Schedule LEP is
PIN). IP PINs are six-digit numbers
Note. The IRS uses the latest enprocessed,
the IRS will determine your
assigned to taxpayers to help pre- cryption technology to ensure that the
translation
needs and provide you
vent the misuse of their SSNs on
electronic payments you make online,
translations
when
available. If you have
fraudulent federal income tax reby phone, or from a mobile device usa
disability
requiring
notices in an acturns. When you have an IP PIN, it ing the IRS2Go app are safe and secessible
format,
see
Form
9000.
prevents someone else from filing cure. Paying electronically is quick,
a tax return with your SSN. To
easy, and faster than mailing in a Contacting your local IRS office.
learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.
check or money order.
Keep in mind, many questions can be
answered
on IRS.gov without visiting
Ways to check on the status of your What if I can’t pay now? Go to
an
IRS
TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp
refund.
IRS.gov/Payments for more informafor the topics people ask about most. If
tion about your options.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
you still need help, IRS TACs provide
Apply
for
an
online
payment
•
tax
help when a tax issue can’t be hanDownload
the
official
IRS2Go
app
•
agreement (IRS.gov/OPA) to meet dled online or by phone. All TACs now
to your mobile device to check your
your tax obligation in monthly inprovide service by appointment, so
refund status.
stallments if you can’t pay your
you’ll know in advance that you can get
• Call the automated refund hotline
taxes in full today. Once you com- the service you need without long wait
at 800-829-1954.
plete the online process, you will
times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/
receive immediate notification of
TACLocator to find the nearest TAC
Note. The IRS can’t issue refunds
whether your agreement has been and to check hours, available services,
before mid-February 2022 for returns
approved.
and appointment options. Or, on the
that claimed the EIC or the additional
IRS2Go app, under the Stay Connecchild tax credit (ACTC). This applies to • Use the Offer in Compromise Preted tab, choose the Contact Us option
Qualifier
to
see
if
you
can
settle
the entire refund, not just the portion
and click on “Local Offices.”
your tax debt for less than the full
associated with these credits.
amount you owe. For more inforMaking a tax payment. Go to
mation on the Offer in Compromise
IRS.gov/Payments for information on
program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Page 20

Publication 971 (December 2021)

The Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) Is Here To
Help You

throughout the process and will do ev- TAS for Tax Professionals
erything possible to resolve your issue.
TAS can provide a variety of informaTAS can help you if:
tion for tax professionals, including tax
• Your problem is causing financial law updates and guidance, TAS prodifficulty for you, your family, or
What Is TAS?
grams, and ways to let TAS know
your business;
about
systemic problems you’ve seen
TAS is an independent organization
You
face
(or
your
business
is
fac•
in
your
practice.
within the IRS that helps taxpayers and
ing)
an
immediate
threat
of
adprotects taxpayer rights. Their job is to
verse action; or
Low Income Taxpayer
ensure that every taxpayer is treated

• You’ve tried repeatedly to contact

fairly and that you know and understand your rights under the Taxpayer
Bill of Rights.

Clinics (LITCs)

the IRS but no one has responded,
or the IRS hasn’t responded by the LITCs are independent from the IRS.
date promised.
LITCs represent individuals whose income is below a certain level and need
How Can You Learn About
to resolve tax problems with the IRS,
How Can You Reach TAS?
Your Taxpayer Rights?
such as audits, appeals, and tax colThe Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes TAS has offices in every state, the lection disputes. In addition, LITCs can
10 basic rights that all taxpayers have District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. provide information about taxpayer
when dealing with the IRS. Go to Your local advocate’s number is in your rights and responsibilities in different
directory
and
at languages for individuals who speak
TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov to help you local
English as a second language. Servunderstand what these rights mean to TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contactyou and how they apply. These are Us. You can also call them at ices are offered for free or a small fee
877-777-4778.
for eligible taxpayers. To find an LITC
your rights. Know them. Use them.
near
you,
go
to
TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/about-us/
How Else Does TAS Help
What Can TAS Do for You?
Low-Income-Taxpayer-Clinics-LITC or
Taxpayers?
TAS can help you resolve problems
see IRS Pub. 4134, Low Income
that you can’t resolve with the IRS. And TAS works to resolve large-scale prob- Taxpayer Clinic List.
their service is free. If you qualify for lems that affect many taxpayers. If you
their assistance, you will be assigned know of one of these broad issues, reto one advocate who will work with you port it to them at IRS.gov/SAMS.

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A

Actual knowledge:
Innocent spouse relief 6
Separation of liability relief 7
Assistance (See Tax help)

B

Burden of proof, separation of
liability 7

C

Community income, relief from
liability for tax attributable to an
item of 4
Community property laws 4

D

Decedent 3
Domestic violence (separation of
liability) 8
Duress 8
Publication 971 (December 2021)

E

Innocent spouse relief 5

Equitable relief:
Conditions for getting 8
Factors for determining whether to
grant 9
Erroneous items 6
Executors (See Decedent)

Limitations on Relief 7

F

N

Flowcharts 13
Form 8857:
For decedent 3
Tax Court review 4

H

How to request relief 2

I

Indications of unfairness:
Innocent spouse relief 6
Injured spouse relief 17

J

Joint and several liability 16

L

No joint return filed 4

P

Partial relief, innocent spouse
relief 6
Publications (See Tax help)

Q

Questions & Answers 16

Page 21

R

Reason to know 6
Refunds 12
Limit on amount of refund 12
Proof required 12

S

Separation of liability relief 7
Spousal abuse 3, 8

Page 22

Spousal notification 3, 16

T

Tax Court review 4
Tax help 18
TEFRA partnership proceedings 3
Transferee liability 3
Transfers of property to avoid
tax 8

U

Understated tax 5
United States Tax Court 4
Unpaid tax 8

W

When to file Form 8857 2

Publication 971 (December 2021)

