Future Developments
Publication 523

Selling Your
Home
For use in preparing

2025 Returns

For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 523, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub523.

What’s New
Credit for energy efficient home improvements requires an identification number. Beginning January 1,
2025, if you are claiming the energy efficient home improvement credit for specified property placed into service
in 2025, you must include the four-character alphanumeric
unique qualified manufacturer identification number
(QMID) for each item. Home energy tax credits are detailed in Energy credits and subsidies.
Termination of certain energy credits after 2025. P.L.
119-21, commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act
(OBBBA), sections 70505 and 70506, modifies several
energy credits and deductions. The energy efficient home
improvement and residential clean energy credit are both
set to expire after 2025. Both credits are allowed for qualifying property with installation completed before 2026. For
construction or reconstruction of a structure, if your original use of the structure begins after 2025, you can't claim
the residential clean energy credit.
Opportunity zones. P.L. 119-21, commonly known as
the OBBBA, section 70421, revises certain Opportunity
Zone rules in Internal Revenue Code sections 1400Z-1
and 1400Z-2.

Reminders

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Feb 26, 2026

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Special rules for capital gains invested in Qualified
Opportunity Funds. Effective December 22, 2017, section 1400Z-2 introduced a temporary deferral of inclusion
in gross income for capital gains invested in Qualified Opportunity Funds and permanent exclusion of capital gains
from the sale or exchange of an investment in the Qualified Opportunity Fund if the investment is held for at least
10 years. For more information, see the Instructions for
Form 8949.
Extension of the exclusion of canceled or forgiven
mortgage debt from income. The exclusion of income
for mortgage debt canceled or forgiven was extended
through December 31, 2025. The indebtedness discharged must generally be on a qualified principal residence and based on an agreement, in writing, prior to
January 1, 2026. See Report as ordinary income on Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR applicable canceled or forgiven mortgage debt, later.
Potential depreciation recapture for additional depreciation deductions. The recapture rules of section 1250
tax certain gains from the sale or other disposition of real
property as ordinary income and not capital gain to the extent the gain is due to depreciation previously claimed in
excess of straight-line for section 1250 realty held more

Publication 523 (2025) Catalog Number 15044W
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

than a year. Form 4797 is used to report the recapture
amount. See Pub. 544.
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
504 Divorced or Separated Individuals
504

505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
505

527 Residential Rental Property
527

Introduction
This publication explains the tax rules that apply when you
sell or otherwise give up ownership of a home. If you meet
certain conditions, you may exclude the first $250,000 of
gain from the sale of your home from your income and
avoid paying taxes on it. The exclusion is increased to
$500,000 for a married couple filing jointly.
This publication also has worksheets for calculations
relating to the sale of your home. It will show you how to:

530 Tax Information for Homeowners
530

537 Installment Sales
537

544 Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets
544

547 Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts
547

551 Basis of Assets
551

587 Business Use of Your Home
587

936 Home Mortgage Interest Deduction
936

1. Figure your maximum exclusion, using Worksheet 1,
2. Determine if you have a gain or loss on the sale or exchange of your home, using Worksheet 2,
3. Figure how much of any gain is taxable (if any) using
Worksheet 3, and
4. Report the transaction correctly on your tax return, using guidance included in Worksheet 3.

4681 Canceled Debts, Foreclosures,
Repossessions, and Abandonments
4681

5797 Home Energy Tax Credits
5797

Form (and Instructions)
Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized Deductions
Schedule A (Form 1040)

Schedule B (Form 1040) Interest and Ordinary
Dividends
Schedule B (Form 1040)

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.

Schedule D (Form 1040) Capital Gains and Losses
Schedule D (Form 1040)

982 Reduction of Tax Attributes Due to Discharge of
Indebtedness (and Section 1082 Basis
Adjustment)
982

1040 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
1040

1040-NR U.S. Nonresident Alien Income Tax Return
1040-NR

1040-SR U.S. Income Tax Return for Seniors
1040-SR

1099-S Proceeds From Real Estate Transactions
1099-S

4797 Sales of Business Property
4797

5695 Residential Energy Credits
5695

6252 Installment Sale Income
6252

8822 Change of Address
8822

8824 Like-Kind Exchanges
8824

8828 Recapture of Federal Mortgage Subsidy
8828

8908 Energy Efficient Home Credit
8908

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
2

8949 Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets
8949

W-2 Wage and Tax Statement
W-2

W-7 Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer
Identification Number
W-7

Publication 523 (2025)

Does Your Home Sale Qualify
for the Exclusion of Gain?
The tax code recognizes the importance of home ownership by allowing you to exclude gain when you sell your
main home. To qualify for the maximum exclusion of gain
($250,000 or $500,000 if married filing jointly), you must
meet the Eligibility Test, explained later. To qualify for a
partial exclusion of gain, meaning an exclusion of gain
less than the full amount, you must meet one of the situations listed in Does Your Home Qualify for a Partial Exclusion of Gain, explained later.
Before considering the Eligibility Test or whether your
home qualifies for a partial exclusion, you should consider
some preliminary items.
Transfer of your home to a spouse or an ex-spouse.
Generally, if you transferred your home (or share of a
jointly owned home) to a spouse or ex-spouse as part of a
divorce settlement, you are considered to have no gain or
loss. You have nothing to report from the transfer and this
entire publication doesn’t apply to you. However, if your
spouse or ex-spouse is a nonresident alien, then you likely
will have a gain or loss from the transfer and the tests in
this publication apply.
Home’s date of sale. To determine if you meet the Eligibility Test or qualify for a partial exclusion, you will need to
know the home’s date of sale, meaning when you sold it. If
you received Form 1099-S, Proceeds From Real Estate
Transactions, the date of sale appears in box 1. If you
didn’t receive Form 1099-S, the date of sale is either the
date the title transferred or the date the economic burdens
and benefits of ownership shifted to the buyer, whichever
date is earlier. In most cases, these dates are the same.
Sale of your main home. You may take the exclusion,
whether maximum or partial, only on the sale of a home
that is your principal residence, meaning your main home.
An individual has only one main home at a time. If you
own and live in just one home, then that property is your
main home. If you own or live in more than one home, then
you must apply a “facts and circumstances” test to determine which property is your main home. While the most
important factor is where you spend the most time, other
factors are relevant as well. They are listed below. The
more of these factors that are true of a home, the more
likely that it is your main home.

• The address listed on your:
1. U.S. Postal Service address,
2. Voter Registration Card,
3. Federal and state tax returns, and
4. Driver’s license or car registration.

• The home is near:

2. Where you bank,
3. The residence of one or more family members,
and
4. Recreational clubs or religious organizations of
which you are a member.
Finally, the exclusion can apply to many different types
of housing facilities. A single-family home, a condominium, a cooperative apartment, a mobile home, and a
houseboat each may be a main home and therefore qualify for the exclusion.

Eligibility Test
The Eligibility Test determines whether you are eligible for
the maximum exclusion of gain ($250,000 or $500,000 if
married filing jointly).

Eligibility Step 1—Automatic
Disqualification
Determine whether any of the automatic disqualifications apply. Your home sale isn’t eligible for the exclusion if ANY of the following are true.

• You acquired the property through a like-kind ex-

change (section 1031 exchange) during the past 5
years. See Pub. 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets.

• You are subject to expatriate tax. For more information
about expatriate tax, see chapter 4 of Pub. 519, U.S.
Tax Guide for Aliens.

If any of these conditions are true, the exclusion doesn’t
apply. Skip to Figuring Gain or Loss, later.

Eligibility Step 2—Ownership
Determine whether you meet the ownership requirement. If you owned the home for at least 24 months (2
years) out of the last 5 years leading up to the date of sale
(date of the closing), you meet the ownership requirement.
For a married couple filing jointly, only one spouse has to
meet the ownership requirement.

Eligibility Step 3—Residence
Determine whether you meet the residence requirement. If you owned the home and used it as your residence for at least 24 months of the previous 5 years, you
meet the residence requirement. The 24 months of residence can fall anywhere within the 5-year period, and it
doesn't have to be a single block of time. All that is required is a total of 24 months (730 days) of residence during the 5-year period. Unlike the ownership requirement,
each spouse must meet the residence requirement individually for a married couple filing jointly to get the full exclusion.

1. Where you work,

If you were ever away from home, you need to determine whether that time counts toward your residence

Publication 523 (2025)

3

requirement. A vacation or other short absence counts as
time you lived at home (even if you rented out your home
while you were gone).

Separated or divorced taxpayers. If you were separated or divorced prior to the sale of the home, you can treat
the home as your residence if:

If you become physically or mentally unable to
care for yourself, and you used the residence as your
main home for at least 12 months in the 5 years preceding
the sale or exchange, any time you spent living in a care
facility (such as a nursing home) counts toward your
2-year residence requirement, so long as the facility has a
license from a state or other political entity to care for people with your condition.

• You are a sole or joint owner, and
• Your spouse or former spouse is allowed to live in the

Eligibility Step 4—Look-Back
Determine whether you meet the look-back requirement. If you didn't sell another home during the 2-year
period before the date of sale (or if you did sell another
home during this period but didn't take an exclusion of the
gain earned from it), you meet the look-back requirement.
You may take the exclusion only once during a 2-year period.

Eligibility Step 5—Exceptions to the
Eligibility Test
There are some exceptions to the Eligibility Test. If any of
the following situations apply to you, read on to see if they
may affect your qualification. If none of these situations
apply, skip to Step 6.

• A separation or divorce occurred during the ownership
of the home. See Separated or divorced taxpayers.

• The death of a spouse occurred during the ownership
of the home. See Surviving spouses.

• You were a service member during the ownership of

the home. See Service, Intelligence, and Peace Corps
personnel.

• The sale involved vacant land. See Vacant land next
to home.

• Your previous home was destroyed or condemned.

See Home destroyed or condemned—considerations
for benefits.

• You owned a remainder interest, meaning the right to

own a home in the future, and you sold that right. See
Remainder interest.

• You acquired or are relinquishing the home in a

like-kind exchange. See Like-kind/1031 exchange.

• You used a portion of the real property, separate from

the living space, for business or rental use, and you
didn’t use any of the separate portion for residential
use for 2 years out of the 5 years leading up to the
sale. See Property Used Partly for Business or Rental.

• You or your spouse (or former spouse) used the entire
property as a vacation home or rental after 2008. See
Business or Rental Use of Home.

4

home under a divorce or separation instrument and
uses the home as his or her main home.

For property owned by a spouse or former spouse, the
term “divorce or separation instrument” means:
(a). A decree of divorce or separate maintenance or a
written instrument incident to such a decree;
(b). A written separation agreement; or
(c). A decree not described in (a) that requires a
spouse to make payments for the support or maintenance of the other spouse.
If your home was transferred to you by a spouse or
ex-spouse (whether in connection with a divorce or not),
you can count any time when your spouse owned the
home as time when you owned it. However, you must
meet the residence requirement on your own. If you
owned your home prior to your marriage and after your divorce or separation and your spouse or former spouse
isn’t allowed to live in the home under a divorce or separation instrument, you can count any time that you owned
the home, solely or jointly with your spouse, as time when
you owned it. However, you must meet the residence requirement on your own.
Surviving spouses. If you are a surviving spouse who
doesn't meet the 2-year ownership and residence requirements on your own, consider the following rule. If you
haven’t remarried at the time of the sale, then you may include any time when your late spouse owned and lived in
the home, even if without you, to meet the ownership and
residence requirements.
Also, you may be able to increase your exclusion
amount from $250,000 to $500,000. You may take the
higher exclusion if you meet all of the following conditions.
1. You sell your home within 2 years of the death of your
spouse.
2. You haven’t remarried at the time of the sale.
3. Neither you nor your late spouse took the exclusion
on another home sold less than 2 years before the
date of the current home sale.
4. You meet the 2-year ownership and residence requirements (including your late spouse‘s times of
ownership and residence, if applicable).
Service, Intelligence, and Peace Corps personnel. If
you or your spouse are a member of the Uniformed Services or the Foreign Service, an employee of the intelligence community of the United States, or an employee,
enrolled volunteer or volunteer leader of the Peace Corps,
you may choose to suspend the 5-year test period for
ownership and residence when you’re on qualified official
extended duty. This means you may be able to meet the
2-year residence test even if, because of your service, you
Publication 523 (2025)

didn’t actually live in your home for at least the 2 years
during the 5-year period ending on the date of sale. Make
the election by filing your tax return for the year of the sale
or exchange of your main home, and exclude the gain
from your taxable income.
Qualified extended duty. You are on qualified extended duty if:

• You are called or ordered to active duty for an indefinite period or for a definite period of more than 90
days.

• You are serving at a duty station at least 50 miles from
your main home, or you are living in government quarters under government orders.

• You are one of the following:

1. A member of the armed forces (Army, Navy, Air
Force, Marine Corps, Space Force, Coast Guard);
2. A member of the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) or the Public Health Service;
3. A Foreign Service chief of mission, ambassador-at-large, or officer;
4. A member of the Senior Foreign Service or the
Foreign Service personnel;
5. An employee, enrolled volunteer, or enrolled volunteer leader of the Peace Corps serving outside
the United States; or
6. An employee of the intelligence community,
meaning:
a. The Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Central Intelligence Agency, the
National Security Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, or the National Reconnaissance Office;

Example 1. You bought a home on May 1, 2008. You
used it as your main home until August 27, 2011. On August 28, 2011, you went on qualified official extended duty
with the Navy. You didn’t live in the house again before
selling it on August 1, 2024. You choose to use the entire
10-year suspension period. Therefore, the suspension period would extend back from August 1, 2024, to August 2,
2014, and the 5-year test period would extend back to August 2, 2009. During that period, you owned the house all
5 years and lived in it as your main home from August 2,
2009, until August 28, 2011, a period of more than 24
months. You meet the ownership and use tests because
you owned and lived in the home for at least 2 years during this test period.
Example 2. You bought and moved into a home in
2016. You lived in it as your main home for 31/2 years. For
the next 6 years, you didn’t live in it because you were on
qualified official extended duty with the Army. You then
sold the home at a gain in 2025. To meet the use test, you
choose to suspend the 5-year test period for the 6 years
you were on qualified official extended duty. This means
you can disregard those 6 years. Therefore, your 5-year
test period consists of the 5 years before you went on
qualified official extended duty. You meet the ownership
and use tests because you owned and lived in the home
for 31/2 years during this test period.
Vacant land next to home. You can include the sale of
vacant land adjacent to the land on which your home sits
as part of a sale of your home if ALL of the following are
true.

• You owned and used the vacant land as part of your
home.

• The sale of the vacant land and the sale of your home
occurred within 2 years of each other.

• Both sales either meet the Eligibility Test or qualify for
partial tax benefits, as described earlier.

b. Any other office within the Department of Defense for the collection of specialized national
intelligence through reconnaissance programs;

Also, if your sale of vacant land meets all these requirements, you must treat that sale and the sale of your home
as a single transaction for tax purposes, meaning that you
may apply the exclusion only once.

c. Any of the intelligence elements of the Army,
Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Federal Bureau
of Investigation, Department of the Treasury,
Department of Energy, and Coast Guard;

Note: However, if you move your home from the land
on which it stood (meaning you relocate the actual physical structure), then that land no longer counts as part of
your home. For example, if you move a mobile home to a
new lot and sell the old lot, then you can’t treat the sale of
the old lot as the sale of your home.

d. The Bureau of Intelligence and Research of
the Department of State; or
e. Any of the elements of the Department of
Homeland Security concerned with the analyses of foreign intelligence information.
Period of suspension. The period of suspension
can’t last more than 10 years. Together, the 10-year suspension period and the 5-year test period can be as long
as, but no more than, 15 years. You can’t suspend the
5-year period for more than one property at a time. You
can revoke your choice to suspend the 5-year period at
any time.
Publication 523 (2025)

Home destroyed or condemned—considerations for
benefits. If an earlier home of yours was destroyed or
condemned, you may be able to count your time there toward the ownership and residence test.
If your home was destroyed, see Pub. 547, Casualties,
Disasters, or Thefts. If your home was condemned, see
Pub. 544, Sales and Other Disposition of Assets.

5

Remainder interest. The sale of a remainder interest in
your home is eligible for the exclusion only if both of the
following conditions are met.

• The buyer isn’t a “related party.” A related party can be
a related person or a related corporation, trust, partnership, or other entity that you control or in which you
have an interest.

• You haven't previously sold an interest in the home for
which you took the exclusion.

Like-kind/1031 exchange. If you sold a home that you
acquired in a like-kind exchange, then the following test
applies.
You can’t claim the exclusion if:
1. Either (a) or (b) applies:
a. You acquired your home in a like-kind exchange
(also known as a section 1031 exchange), or
b. Your basis in your home is determined by reference to a previous owner’s basis, and that previous owner acquired the property in a like-kind exchange (for example, the owner acquired the
home and then gave it to you); and
2. You sold the home within 5 years of the date your
home was acquired in the like-kind exchange.
A main home isn’t available for exchange because the
exchange must be between like-kind real property held for
productive use in a trade or business or for investment.
Also, real property held primarily for sale isn’t eligible for
deferral of gain under section 1031. For an exchange of
rental property that was later converted to personal use as
a main home, there is a 5-year holding period required under section 121(d)(10). A separate 2-year holding period
is required for exchanges between related persons under
section 1031(f). See Pub. 544.
If you convert your main home to a rental property (or
use a portion of the living area for productive use in a
trade or business as in Revenue Procedure 2005-14, examples 3–6), the exchange rules under section 1031 and
exclusion of income rules under section 121 may both apply.
If the requirements of both sections 1031 and 121 are
met, the section 121 exclusion is applied first to realized
gain; section 1031 then applies, including any gain attributable to depreciation deductions. Any cash received in
exchange for the rental property is taken into account only
to the extent the cash exceeds the section 121 excluded
gain on the rental property given up in the exchange. The
period before the exchange that is after the last date the
property was used as a main home isn’t considered nonqualified use for purposes of the proration rules of section
121. To figure basis of the property received in the exchange (replacement property), any gain excluded under
section 121 is added to your basis of your replacement
property, similar to the treatment of recognized gain. You
can’t convert the replacement property to a main home
immediately after the exchange per section 1031(a)(1),
which requires that replacement property be held either
for investment or for productive use in a trade or business.
6

For more information about like-kind exchanges, see Pub.
544.
For additional information about the intersection of sections 121 and 1031, see Revenue Procedure 2005-14,
2005-7
I.R.B.
528,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2005-07_IRB#RP-2005-14.
Note, however, that any period after 2008 during which
the property isn’t used as a principal residence is, with
certain exceptions, considered nonqualified use of that
property for which gain allocable to such period may not
be excluded, in accordance with section 121(b)(5). This
includes property that is separate from the main property
and not a part of the living area of the main home that isn’t
used as a principal residence for a period after 2008. See
section 121(b)(5)(C). See also Revenue Procedure
2005-14 for examples that illustrate how to allocate basis
and gain realized in an exchange that is also eligible for
section 121 exclusion, as well as details of depreciation
recapture. See Form 8824 and its instructions for more details. For additional information, see Property Used Partly
for Business or Rental and Business or Rental Use of
Home, later.

Eligibility Step 6—Final Determination of
Eligibility
If you meet the ownership, residence, and look-back requirements, taking the exceptions into account, then you
meet the Eligibility Test. Your home sale qualifies for the
maximum exclusion. Skip to Worksheet 1, later.
If you didn’t meet the Eligibility Test, then your home
isn’t eligible for the maximum exclusion, but you should
continue to Does Your Home Qualify for a Partial Exclusion of Gain.

Does Your Home Qualify for a Partial
Exclusion of Gain?
If you don't meet the Eligibility Test, you may still qualify for
a partial exclusion of gain. You can meet the requirements
for a partial exclusion if the main reason for your home
sale was a change in workplace location, a health issue,
or an unforeseeable event.

Work-Related Move
You meet the requirements for a partial exclusion if any of
the following events occurred during your time of ownership and residence in the home.

• You took or were transferred to a new job in a work lo-

cation at least 50 miles farther from the home than
your old work location. For example, your old work location was 15 miles from the home and your new work
location is 65 miles from the home.

• You had no previous work location and you began a
new job at least 50 miles from the home.

• Either of the above is true of your spouse, a co-owner
of the home, or anyone else for whom the home was
their residence.

Publication 523 (2025)

Health-Related Move

1. Died;

You meet the requirements for a partial exclusion if any of
the following health-related events occurred during your
time of ownership and residence in the home.

2. Became divorced or legally separated or were issued a separate decree to pay maintenance (support) to the other spouse;

• You moved to obtain, provide, or facilitate diagnosis,

cure, mitigation, or treatment of disease, illness, or injury for yourself or a family member.

• You moved to obtain or provide medical or personal

care for a family member suffering from a disease, illness, or injury. A family member includes your:
1. Parent, grandparent, stepmother, stepfather;
2. Child (including adopted child, eligible foster
child, and stepchild), grandchild;
3. Brother, sister, stepsibling;
4. Mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law; and
5. Uncle, aunt, nephew, or niece.

• A doctor recommended a change in residence for you
because you were experiencing a health problem.

• The above is true of your spouse, a co-owner of the
home, or anyone else for whom the home was their
residence.

Unforeseeable Events
You meet the standard requirements if any of the following
events occurred during the time you owned and lived in
the home you sold.

• Your home was destroyed or condemned.
• Your home suffered a casualty loss because of a natural or man-made disaster or an act of terrorism. (It
doesn’t matter whether the loss is deductible on your
tax return.)

• You, your spouse, a co-owner of the home, or anyone

3. Gave birth to two or more children from the same
pregnancy;
4. Became eligible for unemployment compensation;
5. Became unable, because of a change in employment status, to pay basic living expenses for the
household (including expenses for food, clothing,
housing, medication, transportation, taxes,
court-ordered payments, and expenses reasonably necessary for making an income); and
6. An event is determined to be an unforeseeable
event in IRS published guidance.

Other Facts and Circumstances
Even if your situation doesn’t match any of the standard
requirements described above, you still may qualify for an
exception. You may qualify if you can demonstrate the primary reason for sale, based on facts and circumstances,
is work related, health related, or unforeseeable. Important factors are:

• The situation causing the sale arose during the time

you owned and used your property as your residence;

• You sold your home not long after the situation arose;
• You couldn’t have reasonably anticipated the situation
when you bought the home;

• You began to experience significant financial difficulty
maintaining the home; and

• The home became significantly less suitable as a

main home for you and your family for a specific reason.

else for whom the home was their residence:

Publication 523 (2025)

7

Worksheet 1. Find Your Exclusion Limit

Keep for Your Records

Use this worksheet only if no automatic disqualifications apply, and take all exceptions into account.
A) Determine if you are eligible for the maximum exclusion limit.
Status

You are eligible for the maximum exclusion if...

Maximum If you’re not eligible for
exclusion the maximum exclusion
limit, then you should…

Married
Both spouses meet the residence and look-back requirements $500,000
filing jointly and one or both spouses meet the ownership requirement.

Determine if either spouse is
eligible for the full limit as a
single person. If not,
determine if either spouse is
eligible for a partial
exclusion.

Single,
You meet the residence, ownership, and look-back
married
requirements.
filing
separately

$250,000

Determine if you are eligible
for a partial exclusion.

Surviving
spouse

$500,000

Determine if you are eligible
for the full limit as a single
person. If not, determine if
you are eligible for a partial
exclusion.

1. You sell your home within 2 years of the death of your
spouse.
2. You haven't remarried at the time of the sale.
3. Neither you nor your late spouse took the exclusion on
another home sold less than 2 years before the date of the
current home sale.
4. You meet the 2-year ownership and residence
requirements (including your late spouse‘s times of
ownership and residence, if applicable).

B) Complete this section only if you have determined that you aren’t eligible for the maximum exclusion but
are eligible for a partial exclusion. If you are eligible for a partial exclusion, use this section to determine
your exclusion limit.
Step 1

Determine the shortest of the following 3 periods:
1. Your time of residence in the home during the 5-year period leading up to the sale . . . .
2. Your time of ownership of the home leading up to the sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. The time that has elapsed between the sale and the date you last sold a home for which
you took the exclusion, if applicable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 2

Take the smallest period from Step 1 (you may use days or months) and divide that number
by 730 (if using days) or 24 (if using months) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 3

Multiply the result from Step 2 by $250,000. This is the amount of your reduced exclusion.
For married filing jointly, continue to step 4. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 4

Repeat Steps 1–3 for your spouse and add the two results

............................

C) Your exclusion limit is $___________. Only gain in excess of this amount is taxable, unless you have gain from
full or partial business or rental use. For partial use as a business or rental, see Property Used Partly for Business or
Rental. For use of the entire property for business, rental, vacation, or any other use (other than personal use as a
main home), see Business or Rental Use of Home.

Figuring Gain or Loss
To figure the gain or loss on the sale of your main home,
you must know the selling price, the amount realized, and
the adjusted basis. Subtract the adjusted basis from the
amount realized to get your gain or loss.
Selling price
− Selling expenses
Amount realized
− Adjusted basis
Gain or loss

8

A positive number indicates a gain; a negative number
indicates a loss.
Certain events during your ownership, such as use of
your home for business purposes or your making improvements to it, can affect your gain or loss. They are explained in this section.
See Worksheet 2, later, for steps you should follow to
figure your gain or loss.

Basis Adjustments—Details and
Exceptions
You should include many, but not all, costs associated with
the purchase and maintenance of your home in the basis
Publication 523 (2025)

of your home. For more information on determining basis,
see Pub. 551, Basis of Assets.

Fees and Closing Costs
Some settlement fees and closing costs you can include
in your basis are:

• Abstract fees (abstract of title fees),
• Charges for installing utility services,
• Legal fees (including fees for the title search and preparing the sales contract and deed),

• Recording fees,
• Survey fees,
• Transfer or stamp taxes, and
• Owner’s title insurance.
Settlement costs don’t include amounts placed in escrow for the future payment of items such as taxes and insurance.
Some settlement fees and closing costs you can’t include in your basis are:

• Fire and casualty insurance premiums,
• Rent for occupancy of the house before closing,
• Charges for utilities or other services related to occupancy of the house before closing,

• Any fee or cost that you deducted as a moving expense (allowed for certain fees and costs before
1994),

• Charges connected with getting a mortgage loan,
such as:

1. Mortgage insurance premiums (including funding
fees connected with loans guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs),

6. Legal fees directly connected with building the
house.
Your cost includes your down payment and any debt
such as a first or second mortgage or notes you gave the
seller or builder. It also includes certain settlement or closing costs. In addition, you must generally reduce your basis by points the seller paid you.
If you built all or part of your house yourself, its basis is
the total amount it cost you to complete it. Don’t include in
the cost of the house:

• The value of your own labor, or
• The value of any other labor for which you didn’t pay.
Costs owed by the seller that you paid. You can include in your basis any amounts the seller owes that you
agree to pay (as long as the seller doesn’t reimburse you),
such as:

• Any real estate taxes owed up through the day before
the sale date,

• Back interest owed by the seller,
• The seller‘s title recording or mortgage fees,
• Charges for improvements or repairs that are the seller’s responsibility (for example, lead paint removal),
and

• Sales commissions (for example, payment to the
seller‘s real estate agent).

Improvements
Improvements add to the value of your home, prolong its
useful life, or adapt it to new uses. You add the cost of additions and improvements to the basis of your property.
The following chart lists some examples of improvements.

2. Loan assumption fees,
3. Cost of a credit report,
4. Fee for an appraisal required by a lender,
5. Points (discount points, loan origination fees), and

• Fees for refinancing a mortgage.
Construction. If you contracted to have your house built
on the land you own, your basis is:

• The cost of the land, plus
• The amount it cost you to complete the house, including:

1. The cost of labor and materials,
2. Any amounts paid to a contractor,
3. Any architect’s fees,
4. Building permit charges,
5. Utility meter and connection charges, and
Publication 523 (2025)

9

Examples of Improvements That Increase
Basis
Additions
Bedroom
Bathroom
Deck
Garage
Porch
Patio

Lawn & Grounds
Landscaping
Driveway
Walkway
Fence
Retaining wall
Swimming pool

Systems
Heating system
Central air conditioning
Furnace
Duct work
Central humidifier
Central vacuum
Air/water filtration systems
Wiring
Security system
Lawn sprinkler system

Energy credits and subsidies. If you included in your
basis the cost of any energy-related improvements (such
as a solar energy system) and you received any tax credits or subsidies related to those improvements, you must
subtract those credits or subsidies from your total basis.
Examples include:

• 1977–1987: Credit for home energy improvements;
• 1992–present: Direct or indirect subsidy from a public
utility for installations or modifications aimed at lowering a home’s electricity or natural gas usage or better
managing its energy demand;

• 2006–2025: Credit for certain residential clean energy

Exterior
Storm windows/doors
New roof
New siding
Satellite dish

Plumbing
Septic system
Water heater
Soft water system
Filtration system

Insulation
Attic
Walls
Floors
Pipes and duct work

Interior
Built-in appliances
Kitchen modernization
Flooring
Wall-to-wall carpeting
Fireplace

Repairs done as part of larger project. You can include repair-type work if it is done as part of an extensive
remodeling or restoration job. For example, replacing broken windowpanes is a repair, but replacing the same window as part of a project of replacing all the windows in
your home counts as an improvement.
Examples of improvements you CAN’T include in
your basis. You can’t include:

• Any costs of repairs or maintenance that are neces-

sary to keep your home in good condition but don’t
add to its value or prolong its life. Examples include
painting (interior or exterior), fixing leaks, filling holes
or cracks, or replacing broken hardware;

• Any costs of any improvements that are no longer part
of your home (for example, wall-to-wall carpeting that
you installed but later replaced);

• Any costs of any improvements with a life expectancy,
when installed, of less than 1 year.

Exception. The entire job is considered an improvement if items that would otherwise be considered repairs
are done as part of an extensive remodeling or restoration
of your home. For example, if you have a casualty and
your home is damaged, increase your basis by the
10

amount you spend on repairs that restore the property to
its pre-casualty condition. However, you must adjust your
basis by any amount of insurance reimbursement you receive or expect to receive for casualty losses. See Worksheet 2, line 5.

(previously the residential energy efficient property
credit), for expenditures made for qualified energy
property, such as qualified solar electric, solar water
heating, fuel cell, small wind energy, and geothermal
heat pump property; and battery storage technology;

• 2006–2007, 2009–2025: Credit for qualified energy ef-

ficiency home improvements (previously the nonbusiness property credit), generally for expenditures or
property placed in service for exterior windows, skylights, exterior doors, heat pumps, heat pump water
heaters, biomass stoves, and biomass boilers. A product identification number is required in 2025; and

• 2023–2025: Credit for home energy audits, involving

an inspection and written report for a main home to
identify cost-effective energy efficiency improvements.
Beginning January 1, 2024, the audits must be conducted and prepared by (or under the supervision of)
a certified home energy auditor.

See the Instructions for Form 5695 for detailed information on improvements and credit percentages in specific
tax years.

Home Acquired Through a Trade
Traded for another home. When you trade your home
for a new one, you are treated as having sold your home
and purchased a new one. Your sale price is the trade-in
value you received for your home plus any mortgage or
other debt that the person taking your home as a trade-in
assumed (took over) from you as part of the deal.
Traded for other property. If you paid for your home by
trading other property for it, the starting basis of your
home is usually the fair market value of the property you
traded.

Home Foreclosed, Repossessed, or
Abandoned
If your home was foreclosed on, repossessed, or abandoned, you may have ordinary income, gain, or loss. See
Publication 523 (2025)

Pub. 4681, Canceled Debts, Foreclosures, Repossessions, and Abandonments.
If you used part of your home for business or rental purposes, see Foreclosures and Repossessions in chapter 1
of Pub. 544, for examples of how to figure gain or loss.

Home Destroyed or Condemned
You have a disposition when your home is destroyed or
condemned and you receive other property or money in
payment, such as insurance or a condemnation award.
This is treated as a sale and you may be able to exclude
all or part of any gain that you have. If your home was destroyed, see Pub. 547. If your home was condemned, see
Pub. 544.

Home Received in Divorce
Home acquired after July 18, 1984. If your former
spouse was the sole owner, your starting basis is the
same as your former spouse’s adjusted basis just before
you received the home. If you co-owned the home with
your spouse, add the adjusted basis of your spouse’s
half-share in the home to the adjusted basis of your own
half-share to get your starting basis. (In most cases, the
adjusted basis of the two half-shares will be the same.)
The rules apply whether or not you received anything in
exchange for the home.
Home acquired on or before July 18, 1984. Your starting basis will usually be the home’s fair market value at the
time you acquired it from your spouse or ex-spouse.
For more information, see Pub. 504, Divorced or Separated Individuals. If you or your spouse or ex-spouse lived
in a community property state, see Pub. 555, Community
Property.

Home Received as a Gift
If you received your home as a gift, you should keep records of the date you received it. Record the adjusted basis of the donor at the time of the gift and the fair market
value of the home at the time of the gift. Also ask if the donor paid any gift tax. As a general rule, you will use the donor’s adjusted basis at the time of the gift as your basis.
However, see Table 1 below to determine if any exceptions to this rule listed in the “IF” column apply.

Table 1. Exceptions to Using a Donor’s
Adjusted Basis for a Home Received as a
Gift
IF...

AND...

THEN...

at the time of
the gift, the
donor’s
adjusted basis
in the home
was more than
the home’s fair
market value,

your usage of the
donor’s adjusted
basis as your basis
results in a loss,

you must use the fair market
value of the home at the time
of the gift as your basis (if
using the fair market value
results in a gain for you, then
you don’t need to recognize
that gain).

at the time of
the donor paid gift
the gift, the
tax on the gift of the
donor’s
home,
adjusted basis
in the home
was less than
the home’s fair
market value,

you figure your basis by
starting with the donor’s
adjusted basis at the time of
the gift and adding the federal
gift tax paid due to the
increase in value of the home
(see Regulations section
1.1015-5 for further details on
this calculation).

Home Inherited
Home acquired from a decedent who died before or
after 2010. If you inherited your home from a decedent
who died before or after 2010, your basis is the fair market
value of the property on the date of the decedent‘s death
(or the later alternate valuation date chosen by the personal representative of the estate). If a federal estate tax
return (Form 706) was filed or required to be filed, the
value of the property listed on the estate tax return is your
basis. If Form 706 didn’t have to be filed, your basis in the
home is the same as its appraised value at the date of
death, for purposes of state inheritance or transmission
taxes. See section 1014 for details.
Surviving spouse. If you are a surviving spouse and
you owned your home jointly, your basis in the home will
change. The new basis for the interest your spouse owned
will be its fair market value on the date of death (or alternate valuation date). The basis in your interest will remain
the same. Your new basis in the home is the total of these
two amounts.
If you and your spouse owned the home either as tenants by the entirety or as joint tenants with right of survivorship, you will each be considered to have owned
one-half of the home.
Example. Your jointly owned home (owned as joint
tenants with right of survivorship) had an adjusted basis of
$50,000 on the date of your spouse’s death, and the fair
market value on that date was $100,000. Your new basis
in the home is $75,000 ($25,000 for one-half of the adjusted basis plus $50,000 for one-half of the fair market
value).
Community property. In community property states
(Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin), each spouse is
usually considered to own half of the community property.
When either spouse dies, the total fair market value of the

Publication 523 (2025)

11

community property becomes the basis of the entire property, including the part belonging to the surviving spouse.
For this rule to apply, at least half the value of the community property interest must be includible in the decedent’s gross estate, whether or not the estate must file a
return.
For more information about community property, see
Pub. 555, Community Property.
Inherited property in 2010. If you are selling a home
in which you acquired an interest from a decedent who
died in 2010, see Pub. 4895, Tax Treatment of Property
Acquired From a Decedent Dying in 2010, available at
IRS.gov/pub/irs-prior/p4895--2011.pdf, to determine your
basis.

Property Used Partly for Business or
Rental
Calculation. If you use property partly as a home and
partly for business or to produce rental income, the treatment of any gain on the sale depends partly on whether
the business or rental part of the property is part of your
home or separate from it. If you fail to meet the ownership
and use tests, or if you used a separate portion of your
home for business or rental purposes during your ownership, this may affect your gain or loss calculations. If a portion of the property was used for residential purposes and
another portion of the property, separate from the dwelling
unit, was used for nonresidential purposes, then only the
gain allocable to the residential portion is excludable under Section 121. The Section 121 exclusion is reduced to
the extent of any depreciation adjustments in connection
with the rental or business use of your residence. For details and an example, see Recapturing Depreciation, later.
Treatment of any gain also depends on the use during the
5 years leading up to the sale. To figure the portion of the
gain allocated to the period of nonresidential use, see
Business or rental usage calculations, later. See also
Worksheet 2.
Space within the living area. If the part of your property
used for business or to produce rental income is within
your home, such as a room used as a home office for a
business, you do not need to allocate gain on the sale of
the property between the business part of the property
and the part used as a home. In addition, you do not need
to report the sale of the business or rental part on Form
4797. This is true whether or not you were entitled to claim
any depreciation. However, you can’t exclude the portion
of gain equal to any section 1250(b)(3) depreciation adjustments allowed or allowable after May 6, 1997, which
must be recaptured and reported under section 1250. See
Regulations section 1.121-1(d). See also Recapturing Depreciation, later. Other examples of space within the living
area include a rented spare bedroom and attic space
used as a home office.
Example of nonresidential use within a dwelling
unit. Logan, an attorney, buys a house in 2013. The
house is a single dwelling unit but Logan uses a portion of
the house exclusively as a law office on a regular basis.
12

Logan claimed depreciation deductions of $2,000 during
the period that the house is owned. Logan sells the house
in 2016, realizing a gain of $13,000. Logan has no other
section 1231 or capital gains or losses for 2016. Logan
must recognize $2,000 of the gain as unrecaptured section 1250 gain. Logan completes Form 4797 to report the
amount of depreciation recapture, if any. Logan may exclude the remaining $11,000 of the gain from the sale of
the house because Logan is not required to allocate gain
to the business use within the dwelling unit. See Regulations section 1.121-1(e). See also Determine any depreciation amounts you may need to recapture for guidance on
reporting depreciation previously deducted.
Space separate from the living area. You generally
can’t exclude gain on the separate portion of your property
used for business or to produce rental income. Regulations section 1.121-1(e) provides that the use of a separate portion of your home for business or rental purposes
doesn’t qualify for exclusion under section 121, and this
may affect your gain or loss calculations. See Regulations
section 1.121-1(e). Examples are:

• A working farm on which your house was located,
• A duplex in which you lived in one unit and rented the
other, or

• A store building with an upstairs apartment in which
you lived.

You can’t exclude gain on the separate part of your
property used for business or to produce rental income
unless you owned and lived in that part of your property
for at least 2 years during the 5-year period ending on the
date of the sale. If you don’t meet the use test for the separate business or rental part of the property, an allocation
of the gain on the sale is required. For this purpose, you
must allocate the basis of the property and the amount realized between the residential and nonresidential portions
of the property using the same method of allocation that
you used to determine depreciation adjustments. See the
Example for allocating residential and nonresidential portions of the property. Report the sale of the business or
rental part on Form 4797. For more information about using any part of your home for business or as a rental property, see Pub. 587, Business Use of Your Home, and Pub.
527, Residential Rental Property.
Space formerly used as business or rental. Note that
space formerly used as business or rental will qualify for
exclusion under section 121 if the space was converted to
the taxpayer’s principal residence for a total of 2 years or
more, as long as the use as the principal residence was
within the 5 years leading up to the sale. See Regulations
section 1.121-1(a). However, depreciation deductions
claimed during the previous business use must be reported on line 5a of Worksheet 2 and recognized as unrecaptured section 1250 gain. No separate Business worksheet
is needed because there are no current business expenses. See Regulations section 1.121-1(d). See also the Instructions for Form 4797, and the Instructions for Schedule D (Form 1040). For information on unrecaptured
section 1250 gain, see Recapturing Depreciation, later.
Publication 523 (2025)

Business or rental usage calculations. If you use
property partly as a home and partly for business or to
produce rental income and the business or rental portion
isn’t within the home’s living area, you need to make separate gain/loss calculations for the business and residence
portions of your property. Make three copies of all pages
of Worksheet 2. Label one copy “Total,” one copy “Home,”
and one copy “Business or Rental.”
Complete your “Total” worksheet using the figures for
your property as a whole. Include the total amount you received, all of your basis adjustments, etc. Include the cost
of all improvements, whether you made them to the business space or the residential space.
Determine your “business or rental percentage,” meaning the percentage of your property that you used for business or rental. Section 121 requires you to recognize depreciation claimed on a home after May 6, 1997. If you
were entitled to take depreciation deductions because you
used a portion of your home for business purposes or as
rental property, you can’t exclude the part of your gain
equal to any depreciation allowed or allowable as a deduction for periods after May 6, 1997.
If you used part of your home for business or rental after May 6, 1997, you may need to pay back (“recapture”)
some or all of the depreciation deductions you were entitled to take on your property. “Recapturing” depreciation
means you must include it as ordinary income on your tax
return. See Regulations section 1.1250-1 for limitations. If
you took depreciation on your home on past tax returns,
use the same business or rental percentage that you used
in determining how much depreciation to take. If you didn’t
take depreciation on your home on past tax returns, compare the size of your business or rental space to the size
of the whole property and express this as a percentage.
For example, if you have a building with three equal-sized
stories, and you live in the top two stories and use the
ground floor for a store, then you are using one-third of the
property and your business percentage is 33.3%.
For each number on your “Total” worksheet, figure the
business-related portion of that number and enter it on
your “Business or Rental” worksheet. You may use different methods to determine the business portion of different
numbers. Here are the three possible methods and the
circumstances under which each method applies.

• Dollar-amount method. Where a figure consists of

specific dollar amounts that relate to either the residence portion or the business portion of the property,
the figure must be broken down by these dollar
amounts. For example, if the figure for improvements
to the property was $100,000 and all of that applied to
the residence portion, then the business portion of the
improvements would be zero.

• “100% rule” for depreciation. The first item under

line 5a in Worksheet 2 is a business depreciation item.
Any figure for this item is 100% a business figure.

• Percentage method. Where a figure applies to the

property as a whole (such as the sale price), the business or rental portion is the figure multiplied by the
business portion percentage you calculated earlier.

Publication 523 (2025)

Use the percentage method for all items that don’t require the dollar-amount or depreciation methods.
The total you get on line 7 on your “Business” copy of
Worksheet 2 is the gain or loss related to the business or
rental portion of the property you sold.
Next, complete your “Home” worksheet. For each number, take the number from your “Total” worksheet, subtract
the number from your “Business or Rental” worksheet,
and enter the result in your “Home” worksheet (for example, subtract the number on line 1f of the "Business or
Rental" worksheet from the number on line 1f of your "Total" worksheet), and enter the result on your "Home" worksheet.
Now figure the totals on your “Home” worksheet. The
total you get on line 7 on the “Home” copy of Worksheet 2
is the gain or loss related to the home portion of the property you sold.
Review the results of your “Home” and “Business”
worksheets to determine your next step. When you have
completed each worksheet, you will know whether you
have a gain or loss on each part of your property. It is possible to have a gain on both parts, a loss on both parts, or
a gain on one part and a loss on the other. For more information about using any part of your home for business or
as a rental property, see Pub. 587, Business Use of Your
Home, and Pub. 527, Residential Rental Property.
Example. The following example demonstrates separate calculations for business and residential uses.
Stacey owns property that consists of a house, a stable, and 35 acres. Stacey uses the stable and 28 acres for
nonresidential purposes for more than 3 years during the
5-year period preceding the sale. Stacey uses the entire
house and the remaining 7 acres as a principal residence
for at least 2 years during the 5-year period preceding the
sale. For periods after May 6, 1997, Stacey claims depreciation deductions of $9,000 for the nonresidential use of
the stable. Stacey sells the entire property in 2014, realizing a gain of $24,000. Stacey has no other section 1231 or
capital gains or losses for 2014.
Because the stable and the 28 acres used in the business are separate from the dwelling unit, the allocation
rules apply. Stacey must allocate the basis and amount realized between the portion of the property used as a principal residence and the portion used for nonresidential
purposes based on their respective FMVs. Stacey creates
three copies of Worksheet 2 and titles them “Business or
Rental,” “Home,” and “Total” to allocate basis and the
amount realized for the different uses of the property.
Stacey determines that $14,000 of the gain is allocable
to the nonresidential-use portion of the property by completing the copy of Worksheet 2 entitled “Business or
Rental.” Stacey determines that $10,000 of the gain is allocable to the portion of the property used as a residence by
completing the copy of Worksheet 2 entitled “Home.” Stacey must recognize the $14,000 of gain allocable to the
nonresidential-use portion of the property ($9,000 of
which is unrecaptured section 1250 gain, and $5,000 of
which is adjusted net capital gain). Stacey reports gain associated with the nonresidential-use portion of the property on Form 4797. Stacey may have to complete Form
13

8949 and Schedule D (Form 1040). See Sale of Home
Used for Business, in the Instructions for Form 4797. See
also the Instructions for Form 8949, and the Instructions
for Schedule D (Form 1040). For information on the treatment of unrecaptured section 1250 gain, see Recapturing
Depreciation, later.
Stacey transfers the gain from the “Home” worksheet to
Worksheet 3, reviews the maximum amount available for
exclusion as figured on Worksheet 1, and determines that

14

the $10,000 gain from the residence portion is less than
the maximum amount available for exclusion from Worksheet 1. The $10,000 gain on the property may be excluded.
Complete Worksheet 2. Then see Table 2 to determine
your next steps. Worksheet 2 is used to figure the adjusted basis of your home and your gain or (loss). You will figure your taxable gain (if any) on Worksheet 3, later.

Publication 523 (2025)

Worksheet 2. How To Figure Your Gain or Loss
DO NOT use this worksheet to determine your basis if you acquired an interest in your home from a decedent who
died in 2010 and whose executor filed Form 8939. See Home acquired from a decedent who died before or after 2010.
If you have questions as you work through these step-by-step instructions or want examples of costs that can and can’t
be included, see Basis Adjustments—Details and Exceptions.
• If married filing jointly, figure gain or loss for both spouses together. If single or married filing separately,
figure gain or loss as an individual.
• If the home you sold had multiple owners, your gain or loss is the gain or loss on the entire sale multiplied by
your percentage of ownership.
• If you used any portion of the property for business or rental purposes, see Property Used Partly for
Business or Rental. See also Business or Rental Use of Home.
1. Determine the sale price. This is everything you received for selling your home.
a. All money (currency, check, wire transfer) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a.
b. The fair market value of any other property or services you received, including digital
assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . b.
c. The value of any notes, mortgages, or other debts that the buyer agreed to assume (take over)
as part of the sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . c.
d. Any real estate taxes the buyer paid on your behalf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . d.
e. Any amount you received for granting an option to buy your home, if the option was
exercised . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . e.
f. Add lines 1a through 1e. This is your sale price . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . f.
• If you received payment for personal property, DON’T include it in the sale price.
• If you received payment or reimbursement from your employer because of a job
transfer, DON’T include the payment as part of the selling price. Your employer will include
it as wages in box 1 of your Form W-2.
• If you received Form 1099-S, the gross proceeds for the sale price should appear in
box 2. If box 4 is checked, the sale price included noncash payments, and you need to
determine the value of these and add them to the figure in box 2.
• If you didn’t receive Form 1099-S, refer to your real estate transaction documents for
the total amount you received for your home.
2. Determine your selling expenses. These are the costs directly associated with selling your home.
a. Any sales commissions (for example, a real estate agent’s sales commission) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a.
b. Any advertising fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . b.
c. Any legal fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . c.
d. Any mortgage points or other loan charges you paid that would normally have been the buyer’s
responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . d.
e. Any other fees or costs to sell your home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . e.
f. Add lines 2a through 2e. These are your selling expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . f.
3. Figure your “amount realized” (sale price minus selling expenses).
Line 1f minus line 2f . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Determine your “total basis” (the total amount you invested in your home). This includes what you paid
for your home as well as other money you may have spent that added to its value.
a. The amount you paid for your home (or if you built your home, the cost of the land). Include any
down payment and any amount you borrowed to pay for the home. For cooperative
apartments, include the value of the corporation stock you purchased. If you acquired your
home through inheritance, gift, bargain sale, trade, or anything except a fair market purchase,
see Basis Adjustments—Details and Exceptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a.
b. Any settlement fees or closing costs you paid when you bought your home, except for
financing-related costs (such as seller-paid points). The settlement statement should list the
fees related to buying the home. See Basis Adjustments—Details and Exceptions and Fees
and Closing Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . b.
c. Any real estate taxes or other costs you paid on behalf of the seller you bought your home from
(and for which the seller never paid you back) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . c.
d. Any amounts you spent on construction or other improvements that are still part of your home
at the time of sale (not including costs of maintenance and repairs). See Basis
Adjustments—Details and Exceptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . d.
e. Any amounts you spent to repair damage to your home or the land on which it sits . . . . . . . . . . . e.
f. Any special assessments for local improvements (such as special tax or condominium
association assessments that aren’t merely for repairs or maintenance) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . f.
g. Add lines 4a through 4f. This is your total basis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . g.
Publication 523 (2025)

15

Worksheet 2. How To Figure Your Gain or Loss (continued)
5. Determine your “basis adjustments” (any payments, credits, or benefits you may need to deduct from
your basis).
a. Any depreciation you took or were allowed to take for the use of your home for business or
rental purposes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a.
b. Any casualty losses (such as flood or fire damage) you claimed as a deduction on a federal
tax return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . b.
c. Any insurance payments you received or expect to receive for casualty losses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . c.
d. Any payments you received for granting an easement, conservation restriction, or
right-of-way . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . d.
e. Any energy credits or subsidies that effectively paid you back for improvements you included
in your total basis, including home energy audits by a certified home energy auditor. See
Basis Adjustments—Details and Exceptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . e.
f. Any adoption credits you claimed or any nontaxable payments from an employer-sponsored
adoption assistance program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . f.
g. Any real estate taxes the seller paid on your behalf (and for which you never paid the seller
back). If you reimburse the seller, it doesn’t affect basis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . g.
h. Any mortgage points the seller paid for you when you bought your home, if one of the
following is true . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . h.
• You bought your home between January 1, 1991, and April 3, 1994, AND you deducted
the points as home mortgage interest in the year paid, or
• You bought your home after April 3, 1994 (regardless of whether you deducted the points).
i. Any canceled or forgiven mortgage debt amount on a qualified principal residence that was
excluded before January 1, 2026 (or as part of an arrangement evidenced in writing before
January 1, 2026) or due to a bankruptcy or insolvency and that you didn’t have to declare as
income. (See Pub. 4681.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i.
j. Any sales tax you paid on your home (such as for a mobile home or houseboat) and then
claimed as a deduction on a federal tax return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . j.
k. The value of any temporary housing the builder of your home provided for you . . . . . . . . . . . . . . k.
• Use this equation: Contract price × Value of temporary housing ÷ (Value of temporary
housing + Value of new home)
l. Any gain you postponed from the sale of a previous home sold before May 7, 1997 . . . . . . . . . l.
m. Add lines 5a through 5l. This is your basis adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . m.
6. Figure your “adjusted basis” (total basis minus basis adjustments).
Line 4g minus line 5m . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
• If your adjusted basis is less than zero and you went through a mortgage workout or
other process resulting in forgiveness or cancellation of mortgage debt (“discharge of
qualified principal residence indebtedness”), don’t count any portion of your canceled
debt that is bringing your basis below zero.

6.

7. Figure your gain or loss (amount realized minus adjusted basis).
Line 3 minus line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
• If the number is negative (adjusted basis is greater than amount realized), you sold your
home at a loss. You can’t deduct this loss, but you don’t need to pay any tax on the money
you received from selling your home. Skip to Reporting Your Home Sale, later.
• If the number is positive, you sold your home at a gain. Skip to How Much Is Taxable,
later, to see if Worksheet 3 is required.
If this is your separate worksheet for business use, don’t follow guidance on line 7. Report the
gain on Form 4797 because this gain is not excluded under section 121.

16

Publication 523 (2025)

Table 2. Does Your Home or Business Show a Gain or a Loss?
IF...

THEN...

your “Home” worksheet
shows a loss,

follow the instructions at the end of line 7, under Worksheet 2 for “If the number is negative.”

your “Home” worksheet
shows a gain,

see How Much Is Taxable? and Worksheet 3 to find out how much of the gain on your “Home”
worksheet is taxable.

your “Business”
worksheet shows a loss,

DON’T follow the instructions at the end of line 7, under Worksheet 2. Instead, report the loss from
your “Business” worksheet on Form 4797, Sales of Business Property. Note: Your loss may be
limited. See the Instructions for Form 4797.

your “Business”
worksheet shows a gain,

you can’t exclude any of the gain shown on your “Business” worksheet. DON’T follow the instructions
at the end of line 7, under Worksheet 2. Instead, report the gain from your “Business” worksheet on
Form 4797.

Business or Rental Use of Home
Nonqualified use of entire property after 2008. If you
fail to meet the requirements to qualify for the $250,000 or
$500,000 exclusion, you may still qualify for a reduced exclusion. If you fail to meet the ownership and use tests, or
if, after 2008, you (your spouse or former spouse) didn’t
use your home as a principal residence, this type of usage
may affect your gain or loss calculations.
Gain from the sale or exchange of your main home isn’t
excludable from income if it is allocable to periods of nonqualified use. Nonqualified use means any period after
2008 when neither you nor your spouse (or former
spouse) used the property as your main home, with certain exceptions.
Exceptions. A period of nonqualified use does not include:
1. Any portion of the 5-year period ending on the date of
the sale or exchange after the last date you or your
spouse (or former spouse) used the property as your
main home;
2. Any period (not to exceed 10 years) during which you
(or your spouse) are serving on qualified official extended duty:
a. As a member of the uniformed services;
b. As a member of the Foreign Service of the United States; or
c. As an employee of the intelligence community;
and
3. Any other period of temporary absence (not to exceed
an aggregate period of 2 years) due to change of employment, health conditions, or other unforeseen circumstances as may be specified by the IRS. See Eligibility Step 5 Exceptions to the Eligibility Test, and
Does Your Home Sale Qualify for the Exclusion of
Gain?, earlier.
Gain from depreciation for periods after May 6, 1997,
isn't taken into account to determine gain from nonqualified use. Such gain is not accounted for in determining the
amount of gain allocated to nonqualified use. To figure the
Publication 523 (2025)

portion of the gain allocated to the period of nonqualified
use, see Worksheet 3.
Example. Finley buys a property on January 1, 2020,
for $400,000 and uses the entire property as rental property for 2 years, claiming $20,000 of depreciation deductions and reducing the property’s basis to $380,000. On
January 1, 2022, Finley converts the property to a principal residence. Finley moves out on January 1, 2024, and
sells the property for $700,000 on January 1, 2025. The
total gain on the sale is $320,000 ($700,000 − ($400,000
− $20,000)). Finley completes Worksheet 2, and enters
$20,000 on line 5a so that line 7 reports $320,000.
Finley transfers the $320,000 net gain from line 7 of
Worksheet 2 to Worksheet 3. Finley completes Section A
of Worksheet 3 and takes the amount from line 7 of Worksheet 2, $320,000, and subtracts $20,000 for depreciation. Finley enters $300,000 ($320,000 - $20,000 depreciation) in Step 3 (Section A). Moving to Section B of
Worksheet 3, Finley has $300,000 in net gain that is potentially excluded, except for the period of nonqualified
use. The rental period occurred for 2 out of 5 years that
Finley owned the property and met the use test by using
the home as a principal residence for 2 years (January 1,
2022, to January 1, 2024). Note that the rental period occurred before Finley moved back into the home to fulfill the
required 2-year personal use requirement.
In Section B of Worksheet 3, Finley allocates 40% (2/5,
or 2 years out of 5) of the remaining $300,000 gain, or
$120,000, to nonqualified use ($300,000 - $120,000 =
$180,000). The $120,000 nonqualified use gain is ineligible for the section 121 exclusion and is reported as
long-term capital gain on Schedule D (Form 1040). The
$180,000 of the remaining gain is excluded from gross income, as reported in Section C of Worksheet 3. The balance of the $250,000 exclusion can’t be used. The
$20,000 attributable to the depreciation deduction is subject to recapture under section 1250. See Determine any
depreciation amounts you may need to recapture to figure
the amount to report as ordinary income on Form 4797.
For information on reporting $120,000 of nonqualified use
gain (long-term capital gain), see the Instructions for
Schedule D (Form 1040).

17

Example. Taylor buys a residence on January 1,
2020, for $400,000 and immediately begins using it as a
principal residence. Taylor moves out on January 1, 2023,
and immediately begins to rent the home. On December
1, 2024, Taylor sells the property for $600,000. Based on
the facts presented, note that the rental period after Taylor’s last qualified use is not considered nonqualified use
because nonqualified use during the 5-year period ending
on the date of the sale doesn’t include the time between
when Taylor last used the property as Taylor’s principal
residence and when Taylor sold the property. See section
121(b)(5)(C)(ii). Because Taylor met the ownership and
use tests, Taylor can exclude gain up to $250,000. Taylor
had deducted $27,000 for depreciation for the period of
rental to a third party. Taylor can’t exclude the part of the
gain equal to the depreciation claimed after May 6, 1997,
for renting the house ($27,000). This is unrecaptured section 1250 gain.
After subtracting depreciation from net gain, Taylor’s
net gain reported in Worksheet 3, Section A, Step 3 is
$200,000, calculated as follows: Taylor had completed
Worksheet 2 and reported $600,000 on line 1, $400,000
on line 4a, and $27,000 on line 5a. Taylor computed figures on Worksheet 2 and reported $227,000 on line 7
($600,000 - ($400,000 - $27,000)). Taylor transferred the
result from line 7 to Worksheet 3. Taylor completed Section A to enter net gain and subtract the $27,000 of depreciation deductions taken. Taylor entered $200,000 in Step
3 of Section A. Taylor skipped Section B because there is
no nonqualified use based on the exception under section
121(b)(5)(C)(ii). Taylor completed Section C for the column “you completed Section A but skipped Section B”
and took the figure from Section A, Step 3 and entered
$200,000. The entire $200,000 gain is excludable from
gross income because any period after the last qualified
use doesn’t constitute nonqualified use.
After subtracting depreciation from net gain in Worksheet 2, line 7, if Taylor’s net gain had exceeded the maximum exclusion amount for a single filer, any capital gain
above the threshold ($250,000) would have been reported
on Schedule D (Form 1040) as long-term capital gain.
However, Taylor must report the $27,000 depreciation on
Form 4797. See the Instructions for Form 4797. For information on the treatment of unrecaptured section 1250
gain, see Recapturing Depreciation, later. See also Pub.
544 for information on depreciation recapture.
For more information about using any part of your home
for business or as a rental property, including information
about depreciation deductions, see Pub. 587, Business
Use of Your Home, and Pub. 527, Residential Rental Property. See also Pub. 946, How to Depreciate Property.

How Much Is Taxable?
Review of the Eligibility Test. Generally, your home
sale qualifies for the maximum exclusion if all of the following conditions are true.

• You didn’t acquire the property through a like-kind exchange in the past 5 years.

18

• You aren’t subject to the expatriate tax.
• You owned the home for at least 2 of the last 5 years

and lived in the home for at least 2 (1 if you become
disabled) of the last 5 years leading up to the date of
the sale.*

• For the 2 years before the date of the current sale, you
didn’t sell another home on which you claimed the exclusion.

• You didn’t use a portion of the home outside of the living area, for business or rental purposes.

• You didn’t use the entire property for business or

rental purposes or as a second home after 2008.

• The sale doesn’t involve the transfer of vacant land or
a remainder interest.**

*If this condition isn’t met, your home sale may qualify
for a partial exclusion. The sale must involve one of the following events experienced by you, your spouse, a
co-owner, or anyone else for whom the home was their
residence: a work-related move, a health-related move, a
death, a divorce, a pregnancy with multiple children, a
change in employment status, a change in unemployment
compensation eligibility, or other unusual event.
**The transfer of vacant land or of a remainder interest
may qualify for the maximum exclusion, but special rules
apply in those situations.
For a step-by-step guide to determining whether your
home sale qualifies for the maximum exclusion, see Does
Your Home Sale Qualify for the Exclusion of Gain?, earlier.
If you qualify for an exclusion on your home sale, up to
$250,000 ($500,000 if married and filing jointly) of your
gain will be tax free. If your gain is more than that amount,
or if you qualify only for a partial exclusion, then some of
your gain may be taxable. This section contains
step-by-step instructions for figuring out how much of your
gain is taxable. See Worksheet 3, later, for assistance in
determining your taxable gain.
If you determined in Does Your Home Sale Qualify for
the Exclusion of Gain, earlier, that your home sale doesn't
qualify for any exclusion (either full or partial), then your
entire gain is taxable. If you don’t have a gain, you owe no
tax on the sale. In either case, you don’t need to complete
Worksheet 3 and you can skip to Reporting Your Home
Sale, later.

Recapturing Depreciation
If you were entitled to take depreciation deductions because you used your home for business purposes or as
rental property, you cannot exclude the part of your gain
equal to any depreciation allowed or allowable as a deduction for periods after May 6, 1997. However, If you
used all of your home for business or rental, you may also
have to pay back (“recapture”) some or all of the depreciation you were entitled to take on your property. “Recapturing” depreciation means you must include it as ordinary income on your tax return. See Additional Depreciation in

Publication 523 (2025)

Pub. 544 for more information about depreciation recapture.
See Determine any depreciation amounts you may
need to recapture, later, for more detail.
Example. Cartier owned and used a house as a main
home from 2017 through 2020. On January 1, 2021, Cartier moved to another state. Cartier rented the home from
that date until April 30, 2023, when Cartier sold it. During
the 5-year period ending on the date of sale (May 1,
2018–April 30, 2023), Cartier owned and lived in the
house for more than 2 years. Because the period of nonqualified use doesn’t include any part of the 5-year period
after the last date Cartier lived in the home, there is no pe-

riod of nonqualified use. Because Cartier met the ownership and use tests, Cartier can exclude gain up to
$250,000. However, Cartier can’t exclude the part of the
gain equal to the depreciation Cartier claimed or could
have claimed for renting the house.
Worksheet 3 is used to help you figure taxable gain on
the sale or exchange of your home (if any) and how to report it.
Tip: If you completed “Business or Rental” and “Home”
versions of your gain/loss worksheet, as described in
Property Used Partly for Business or Rental, earlier, complete Worksheet 3 only for the “Home” version.

Worksheet 3. Determine if You Have Taxable Gain
If you completed “Business or Rental” and “Home” versions of your gain/loss worksheet, as described in Property
Used Partly for Business or Rental, earlier, complete Worksheet 3 only for the “Home” version. However, the section 121
exclusion is reduced to the extent of any depreciation adjustments in connection with the business use of your residence.
Worksheet 2 allocated a separate portion of the property used for Business or Rental, if any, to figure the amount of gain
potentially excluded under section 121. Worksheet 3 helps you figure how much of the gain calculated in Worksheet 2 will
be excluded under section 121 based, in part, on whether you, your spouse, or a former spouse used the entire property
as your principal residence or for another purpose, for example, for rental use or as a second home or a vacation home.
Section A. Depreciation. Determine your net gain. Complete this section only if you used all or part of your
home for business or rental purposes between May 7, 1997, and the date of sale. Otherwise, skip to Section
B.
Step 1

Enter your gain from line 7 of Worksheet 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 2

List the total of all depreciation deductions that you took or could have taken
for the use of all or part of your home for business or rental purposes
between May 7, 1997, and the date of sale. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 3

Subtract the sum of Step 2 from the amount listed in Section A, Step 1. This
is your net gain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Section B. Determine your nonqualified use gain. Complete this section only if the following apply: a) During
the time you owned the property there were periods of nonqualified use when neither you nor your spouse
(or your former spouse) used the entire property as your main home; b) the periods of nonqualified use
occurred after 2008; c) the periods of nonqualified use occurred before the last day the entire property was
used as your or your spouse’s (or your former spouse) main home prior to the date of sale. Do not include
any period of nonqualified use that occurred after the last day that you or your spouse (or former spouse)
used the entire property as your main home during the 5-year period prior to the date of sale.* Otherwise,
skip to Section C.
*Note: If the period of nonuse was 1) for an aggregate of 2 years or less and due to a change in employment, a health
condition, or other “unforeseen circumstance” described in Does Your Home Qualify for a Partial Exclusion of Gain,
earlier; or 2) for 10 years or less and due to a “stop the clock” exception for certain military, intelligence, and Peace
Corps personnel described in Service, Intelligence, and Peace Corps Personnel, earlier, then you may skip Section B.
Step 1

Enter the amount from Section A, Step 3, or, if you skipped Section A, your
gain from line 7 of Worksheet 2, earlier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 2

Enter the total number of days after 2008 and before the date of sale that
neither you nor your spouse (or former spouse) used the entire home as a
main residence. Do not include any days that occurred after the last day that
you or your spouse (or former spouse) used the entire property as your main
home during the 5-year period prior to the date of sale. This number is your
nonuse days . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 3

Enter the total number of days you owned your home (counting all days, not
just days after 2008). This number is your number of days owned . . . . . . . . . .

Step 4

Divide the nonuse days by the days owned. This number is your
nonresidence factor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Step 5

Multiply the decimal from Section B, Step 4, by the amount listed in Section
B, Step 1. This number is your nonqualified use gain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Section C. Determine your gain that is eligible for exclusion.
Publication 523 (2025)

19

IF...

THEN your gain that is eligible for exclusion is …

you skipped Sections A & B

the amount of your gain from line 7 of Worksheet 2.

you completed Section A but your net gain from Section A, Step 3.
skipped Section B
you completed
Section B but
skipped Section
A

the amount from Section B, Step 1, less your nonqualified use
gain from Section B, Step 5.

you completed
Sections A & B

your net gain from Section A, Step 3, less your nonqualified use
gain from Section B, Step 5.

Your gain that is eligible for exclusion is $ _______________
Section D. Determine if you have taxable gain.
IF...

THEN …

your gain that is eligible for
exclusion from Section C is
less than or equal to your
exclusion limit from
Worksheet 1, Section C

your gain that is eligible for exclusion from your income is not to be reported on your tax
return. The Reporting Your Home Sale section only applies to your nonqualified use
gain. However, you may need to complete Form 8949 if Form 1099-S was received.
See Reporting Gain or Loss on Your Home Sale, later.

your gain that is eligible for
exclusion from Section C is
greater than your exclusion
limit from Worksheet 1,
Section C

some of your gain isn’t excludable, and you may owe tax on it. See Reporting Your
Home Sale for instructions on how to report the gain on your tax return.

Reporting Your Home Sale
This section tells you how to report taxable gain, take deductions relating to your home sale, and report income
other than the gain that you may have received from your
home sale.
This section also covers special circumstances that apply to some home sellers.
What records to keep. Any time you buy real estate,
you should keep records to document the property’s adjusted basis. In general, keep these records until 3 years
after the due date for your tax return for the year in which
you sold your home.

Reporting Gain or Loss on Your Home
Sale
Determine whether you need to report the gain from
your home. You need to report the gain if ANY of the following is true.

• You have taxable gain on your home sale (or on the

residential portion of your property if you made separate calculations for home and business) and don’t
qualify to exclude all of the gain.

• You received a Form 1099-S. If so, you must report the
sale on Form 8949 even if you have no taxable gain to
report. See Instructions for Form 8949 and Instructions for Schedule D (Form 1040) for more details.

• You wish to report your gain as a taxable gain even

though some or all of it is eligible for exclusion. You
may wish to do this if, for example, you plan to sell another main home within the next 2 years and are likely

20

to receive a larger gain from the sale of that property. If
you later choose to report, rather than exclude, your
taxable gain, you can undo that choice by filing an
amended return within 3 years of the due date of your
return for the year of the sale, excluding extensions.
If NONE of the three bullets above is true, you don’t
need to report your home sale on your tax return. If you
didn’t make separate home and business calculations on
your property, skip to Reporting Deductions Related to
Your Home Sale, later.
If ANY of the three bullets above is true, skip to Determine whether your home sale is an installment sale, later.
If you made separate gain/loss calculations for
business and residence portions of your property,
you may have to use Form 4797 to report the sale of the
business or rental part. See Property Used Partly for Business or Rental, earlier.
Determine any depreciation amounts you may need
to recapture. The exclusion of gain doesn't apply to any
gain from depreciation adjustments attributable to periods
after May 6, 1997. Such gain is not accounted for in determining the amount of gain allocated to business or rental
use. You must adjust basis for depreciation deducted in
earlier years. If you didn't deduct any depreciation, decrease your basis by the amount you could have deducted. For information on depreciation deductions associated with business or rental use of a principal residence,
see Pub. 946.
For depreciation deducted during periods of rental or
business use, the adjustment to basis will affect net gain
or loss. Upon the sale of real property held more than a
year, additional depreciation in excess of the straight-line
method are taxed as ordinary income if the property was
held more than a year. Net gain in excess of the maximum
Publication 523 (2025)

excludable (for your filing status) is taxed at the applicable
capital gains rate. See the Instructions for Form 4797 and
for Schedule D (Form 1040) to figure the total amount of
depreciation deductions for any period when the property
was used for business or rental. See Additional Depreciation in Pub. 544 for guidance on the potential recapture of
additional depreciation deductions.
Determine whether your home sale is an installment
sale. If you finance the buyer’s purchase of your home
(you hold a note, mortgage, or other financial agreement),
you probably have an installment sale. You may be able to
report any nonexcludable gain on an installment basis.
However, generally where a seller of property reports
profit on the installment method, any recapturable depreciation gain recognized must all be reported for the year of
the installment sale. Use Form 6252, Installment Sale Income, to report the sale.
For more information, see Pub. 537, Installment Sales.
Report any interest you receive from the buyer. If the
buyer is making payments to you over time (as when you
provide seller financing), then you must generally report
part of each payment as interest on your tax return. Report
the interest portion of the payment as ordinary income on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 2b, or Schedule NEC (Form
1040-NR) if a nonresident alien. If the buyer is using the
property as a first or second home, also report the interest
on Schedule B (Form 1040), Interest and Ordinary Dividends, and provide the buyer’s name, address, and social
security number (SSN). If you don’t show the buyer’s
name, address, and SSN you may have to pay a $50 penalty.
If you’re a nonresident or resident alien who
doesn’t have and isn’t eligible to get a SSN, you may
be issued an individual taxpayer identification number
(ITIN). If you don’t have an ITIN, apply for one by filing
Form W-7, Application for IRS Individual Taxpayer Identification Number. If needed, a nonresident or resident alien
buyer can apply for an ITIN as well.
Complete Form 8949, Sales and Other Dispositions
of Capital Assets. Use Form 8949 to report gain from
the sale or disposition of the personal-use portion of your
home if you can’t exclude the gain. If you received Form
1099-S, report the transaction on Form 8949. See the Instructions for Form 8949.
Reporting recognized gain. If you have gain that
can’t be excluded, you must generally report it on Form
8949, Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets, and
Schedule D (Form 1040), Capital Gains and Losses. Report the sale on Part I or Part II of Form 8949 as a
short-term or long-term transaction, depending on how
long you owned the home. In addition, you may be able to
temporarily defer capital gains invested in a Qualified Opportunity Fund (QOF). You may also be able to permanently exclude capital gains from the sale or exchange of
an investment in a QOF if the investment is held for at
least 10 years. For more information, see the Instructions
for Form 8949.
Publication 523 (2025)

Complete Schedule D (Form 1040), Capital Gains and
Losses. Using the information on Form 8949, report on
Schedule D (Form 1040) the gain or loss on your home as
a capital gain or loss. Follow the instructions for Schedule D when completing the form.
If you have any taxable gain from the sale of your home,
you may have to increase your withholding or make estimated tax payments. See Pub. 505, Tax Withholding and
Estimated Tax.

Reporting Deductions Related to Your
Home Sale
If you aren’t itemizing deductions on your return for the
year in which you sold your home, skip to Reporting Other
Income Related to Your Home Sale, later.
There is no tax deduction for transfer taxes, stamp
taxes, or other taxes, fees, and charges you paid when
you sold your home. However, if you paid these amounts
as the seller, you can treat these taxes and fees as selling
expenses. If you pay these amounts as the buyer, include
them in your cost basis of the property.
Determine the amount of real estate tax deductions
associated with your home sale. Depending on your
circumstances, you may need to figure your real estate tax
deductions differently. See the discussion that follows for
more information.
If you didn’t receive a Form 1099-S, use the following method to compute your real estate tax deduction,
which may be different from the amount of real estate tax
you actually paid.

• Divide the number of days you owned the property

during the year of sale, not counting the date of sale,
by 365 (or 366 for a leap year).

• Multiply that figure by the amount of real estate tax

due on the home during the 12-month billing cycle that
contains the date of sale. The result is the amount of
real estate tax you can deduct as an itemized deduction.

Example. The real estate tax on Jackie and Pat
White’s home was $620 for the year. Their real property
tax year was the calendar year, with payment due August
3, 2025. They sold the home on May 6, 2025. Jackie and
Pat are considered to have paid a proportionate share of
the real estate taxes on the home even though they didn’t
actually pay them to the taxing authority.
Jackie and Pat owned their home during the 2025 real
property tax year for 125 days (January 1 to May 5, the
day before the sale). They figure their deduction for taxes
as follows.
1.
2.
3.
4.

Total real estate taxes for the real property tax year . .
Number of days in the real property tax year that you
owned the property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Divide line 2 by 365 (366 if leap year) . . . . . . . . . . .
Multiply line 1 by line 3. This is your deduction. Enter it
on line 5b of Schedule A (Form 1040) . . . . . . . . . . .

$620
125
0.342
$212

21

Since the buyers paid all of the taxes, Jackie and Pat also
include the $212 in the home’s selling price. The buyers
add the $212 to their basis in the home. The buyers can
deduct $408 ($620 – $212) as an itemized deduction, the
taxes for the part of the year they owned the home.
If you received a Form 1099-S, start with the amount
of real estate tax you actually paid in the year of sale. Subtract the buyer’s share of real estate tax, as shown in
box 6. The result is the amount you can use in figuring
your itemized deductions.
If you didn’t already deduct all your mortgage
points on an earlier tax return, you may be able to deduct them on your tax return for the year of sale. See Pub.
936, Home Mortgage Interest Deduction.
Report on Schedule A (Form 1040), Itemized Deductions, any itemized real estate deduction. Follow the
Instructions for Schedule A when completing the form.

Reporting Other Income Related to
Your Home Sale
Report as ordinary income on Form 1040, 1040-SR,
or 1040-NR any amounts received from selling personal property. If you sold furniture, drapes, lawn equipment, a washer/dryer, or other property that wasn’t a permanent part of your home, report the amount you received
for the items as ordinary income. Report this amount on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8z, or Schedule NEC (Form
1040-NR) if a nonresident alien. The selling price of your
home doesn’t include amounts you received for personal
property sold with your home.
Report as ordinary income on Form 1040, 1040-SR,
or 1040-NR any amounts received for sales of expired options to purchase your property. If you granted someone an option to buy your home and it expired in
the year of sale, report the amount you received for the
option as ordinary income. Report this amount on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8z, or Schedule NEC (Form
1040-NR) if a nonresident alien.
Report as ordinary income on Form 1040, 1040-SR,
or 1040-NR applicable canceled or forgiven mortgage debt. If you went through a mortgage workout, foreclosure, or other process in which a lender forgave or canceled mortgage debt on your home, then you must
generally report the amount of forgiven or canceled debt
as income on your tax return. However, if you had a written
agreement for the forgiveness of the debt in place before
January 1, 2026, then you may be able to exclude the forgiven amount from your income. For more information,
see Pub. 4681, Canceled Debts, Foreclosures, Repossessions, and Abandonments.

Paying Back Credits and Subsidies
If you received any homebuyer credits or federal mortgage
subsidies, you may have to pay back (“recapture”) some
or all of the amount by increasing your tax payment.
22

Determine any amounts you may have received in
federal mortgage subsidies in the 9 years leading up
to the date of sale. If you financed your home under a
federally subsidized program (loans from tax-exempt
qualified mortgage bonds or loans with mortgage credit
certificates), you may have to recapture all or part of the
benefit you received from that program upon the sale or
other transfer of ownership of your home. You recapture
the benefit by increasing your federal income tax for the
year of the sale. You may have to pay this recapture tax
even if you can exclude your gain from income under the
rules discussed earlier; that exclusion doesn’t affect the
recapture tax.
See Form 8828, Recapture of Federal Mortgage Subsidy, to find out how much to repay or whether you qualify
for any exceptions.
If you did receive any federal mortgage subsidies, you
must file Form 8828 with your tax return whether you sold
your home at a loss or a gain. If you had a loss, you won't
have to pay back any subsidy.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
Publication 523 (2025)

help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the
CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.

Publication 523 (2025)

!

Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English
and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian,
and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in
23

alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You’ll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
24

the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Publication 523 (2025)

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information
on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s

free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our sysCAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
Publication 523 (2025)

IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able to use
the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information,
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and
appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the
Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and
click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS. Our services are free.

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn’t working as it should.

25

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,

26

Publication 523 (2025)

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A
Armed Service Members 5
Assistance (See Tax help)
Automatic disqualification 3
Away from home 3

B
Basis adjustments:
Adjusted basis 8
Business or Rental use of home 12

C
Capital Gains:
Qualified Opportunity Funds 1
Closing costs 9
Community property:
Basis determination 11
Condemnation:
Basis 11
Sale price 11
Condominium:
As main home 3
Cooperative apartment:
As main home 3

D
Death of Spouse 4
Depreciation:
Home used for business or rental
purposes 18
Destruction:
Basis 11
Sale price 11
Disability:
Mentally disabled 4
Physically disabled 4
Divorce 11

E
Eligibility test 3
Energy:
Credit 10

Publication 523 (2025)

Subsidies 10
exclusion of canceled or forgiven mortgage
debt 1
Exclusion of gain 3

N

F

O

Nonresident or resident alien 21

Federal mortgage subsidies 22
Form 8949 21
Future developments 1

Ownership 3
Ownership requirement 3

G

Paying back credits 22
Paying back subsidies 22
Peace Corps Members 5
Publications (See Tax help)

Gain or loss 8
Exclusion of gain 3

H
Home acquired through a trade 10
Home inherited 11
Home received as gift 11
Home sale:
Reporting requirements 20
Houseboat:
As main home 3

I
Improvements 9
Inheritance:
Home received as 11
Installment sale 21
Interest reporting 21

L
Look-back requirement 4
Look-back requirement exceptions 4

M
Main home:
Defined 3
Factors used to determine 3
Missing children, photographs of 2
Mobile home:
As main home 3
More than one home 3

P

R
Remodeling 10
Rental use of home 17
Repairs 10
Reporting home sale deductions 21
Reporting other income related to home
sale 22
Reporting taxable gain or loss 20
Residence 3
Residence requirement 3

S
Seller costs 9
Settlement fees 9
Spouse:
Death of (See Surviving spouse)
Surviving spouse:
Basis determination 11

T
Tax help 22
Taxable gain 18
Transfer of home 3

W
Widowed Taxpayers 4

27

