Future Developments
Publication 502

Medical and
Dental
Expenses
For use in preparing

2025 Returns

For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 502, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub502.

Reminders
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 800-THE-LOST (800-843-5678) if you recognize a
child.

Introduction
This publication explains the itemized deduction for medical and dental expenses that you claim on Schedule A
(Form 1040). It discusses what expenses and whose expenses you can and can’t include in calculating the deduction. It explains how to treat reimbursements and how
to figure the deduction. It also tells you how to report the
deduction on your tax return and what to do if you sell
medical property or receive damages for a personal injury.
Medical expenses include dental expenses, and in this
publication the term “medical expenses” is often used to
refer to medical and dental expenses.
You can deduct on Schedule A (Form 1040) only the
part of your medical and dental expenses that is more
than 7.5% of your adjusted gross income (AGI).
This publication also explains how to treat impairment-related work expenses and health insurance premiums if you are self-employed.
Pub. 502 covers many common medical expenses but
not every possible medical expense. If you can’t find the
expense you are looking for, refer to the definition of medical expenses under What Are Medical Expenses, later.
See How To Get Tax Help near the end of this publication for information about getting publications and forms.

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Feb 5, 2026

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.

Publication 502 (2025) Catalog Number 15002Q
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
969 Health Savings Accounts and Other
Tax-Favored Health Plans
969

Forms (and Instructions)
1040 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return
1040

1040-SR U.S. Income Tax Return for Seniors
1040-SR

Schedule A (Form 1040) Itemized Deductions
Schedule A (Form 1040)

8962 Premium Tax Credit (PTC)
8962

What Are Medical Expenses?
Medical expenses are the costs of diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease and for the purpose of affecting any part or function of the body. These
expenses include payments for legal medical services
rendered by physicians, surgeons, dentists, and other
medical practitioners. They include the costs of equipment, supplies, and diagnostic devices needed for these
purposes.
Medical care expenses must be primarily to alleviate or
prevent a physical or mental disability or illness. They
don’t include expenses that are merely beneficial to general health, such as vitamins or a vacation.
Medical expenses include the premiums you pay for insurance that covers the expenses of medical care and the
amounts you pay for transportation to get medical care.
Medical expenses also include amounts paid for qualified
long-term care services and limited amounts paid for any
qualified long-term care insurance contract.

What Expenses Can You
Include This Year?
You can include only the medical and dental expenses
you paid this year but generally not payments for medical
or dental care you will receive in a future year. (But see
Decedent under Whose Medical Expenses Can You Include, later, for an exception.) This is not the rule for determining whether an expense can be reimbursed by a flexible spending arrangement (FSA). If you pay medical
expenses by check, the day you mail or deliver the check
is generally the date of payment. If you use a
“pay-by-phone” or “online” account to pay your medical
expenses, the date reported on the statement of the financial institution showing when payment was made is the
date of payment. If you use a credit card, include medical
expenses you charge to your credit card in the year the
charge is made, not when you actually pay the amount
charged.
If you didn’t claim a medical or dental expense that
would have been deductible in an earlier year, you can file
Form 1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, to claim a refund for the year in which you overlooked
the expense. Don’t claim the expense on this year’s return.
Generally, a claim for refund must be filed within 3 years
from the date the original return was filed or within 2 years
from the time the tax was paid, whichever is later.
You can’t include medical expenses that were paid by
insurance companies or other sources. This is true
whether the payments were made directly to you, to the
patient, or to the provider of the medical services.
Separate returns. If you and your spouse live in a noncommunity property state and file separate returns, each
of you can include only the medical expenses each actually paid. Any medical expenses paid out of a joint
checking account in which you and your spouse have the
same interest are considered to have been paid equally by
each of you, unless you can show otherwise.
Community property states. If you and your spouse
live in a community property state and file separate returns or are registered domestic partners in Nevada,
Washington, or California, any medical expenses paid out
of community funds are divided equally. Generally, each of
you should include half the expenses. If medical expenses
are paid out of the separate funds of one individual, only
the individual who paid the medical expenses can include
them. If you live in a community property state and aren’t
filing a joint return, see Pub. 555.

How Much of the Expenses
Can You Deduct?
Generally, you can deduct on Schedule A (Form 1040)
only the amount of your medical and dental expenses that
is more than 7.5% of your AGI.

2

Publication 502 (2025)

Whose Medical Expenses
Can You Include?
You can generally include medical expenses you pay for
yourself, as well as those you pay for someone who was
your spouse or your dependent either when the services
were provided or when you paid for them. There are different rules for decedents and for individuals who are the
subject of multiple support agreements. See Support
claimed under a multiple support agreement, later, under
Qualifying Relative.

Spouse
You can include medical expenses you paid for your
spouse. To include these expenses, you must have been
married either at the time your spouse received the medical services or at the time you paid the medical expenses.
Example 1. Your spouse received medical treatment
before you were married. You paid for the treatment after
getting married. You can include these expenses in figuring your medical expense deduction even if you and your
spouse file separate returns.
If your spouse had paid the expenses, you couldn’t include your spouse’s expenses on your separate return.
The amounts your spouse paid during the year would be
included on their separate return. If you filed a joint return,
the medical expenses both of you paid during the year
would be used to figure the medical expense deduction.
Example 2. This year, you paid medical expenses for
your spouse, Kitt, who died last year. You married Royal
this year and the two of you file a joint return. Because you
were married to Kitt when Kitt received the medical services, you can include those expenses in figuring your
medical expense deduction for this year.

Dependent
You can include medical expenses you paid for your dependent. For you to include these expenses, the person
must have been your dependent either at the time the
medical services were provided or at the time you paid the
expenses. A person generally qualifies as your dependent
for purposes of the medical expense deduction if both of
the following requirements are met.
1. The person was a qualifying child (defined later) or a
qualifying relative (defined later).
2. The person was a U.S. citizen or national or a resident
of the United States, Canada, or Mexico. If your qualifying child was adopted, see Exception for adopted
child, later.

2. The person filed a joint return for 2025; or
3. You or your spouse if filing jointly could be claimed as
a dependent on someone else’s 2025 return.
Exception for adopted child. If you are a U.S. citizen or
national and your adopted child lived with you as a member of your household for 2025, that child doesn’t have to
be a U.S. citizen or national or a resident of the United
States, Canada, or Mexico.

Qualifying Child
A qualifying child is a child who:
1. Is your son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, brother,
sister, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister,
or a descendant of any of them (for example, your
grandchild, niece, or nephew);
2. Was:
a. Under age 19 at the end of 2025 and younger than
you (or your spouse if filing jointly),
b. Under age 24 at the end of 2025, a full-time student, and younger than you (or your spouse if filing
jointly), or
c. Any age and permanently and totally disabled;
3. Lived with you for more than half of 2025;
4. Didn’t provide over half of their own support for 2025;
and
5. Didn’t file a joint return, other than to claim a refund.
Adopted child. A legally adopted child is treated as your
own child. This child includes a child lawfully placed with
you for legal adoption.
You can include medical expenses that you paid for a
child before adoption if the child qualified as your dependent when the medical services were provided or when the
expenses were paid.
If you pay back an adoption agency or other persons for
medical expenses they paid under an agreement with you,
you are treated as having paid those expenses provided
you clearly substantiate that the payment is directly attributable to the medical care of the child.
But if you pay the agency or other person for medical
care that was provided and paid for before adoption negotiations began, you can’t include them as medical expenses.
Tip: You may be able to take a credit for other expenses related to an adoption. See the Instructions for Form
8839, Qualified Adoption Expenses, for more information.

You can include medical expenses you paid for an individual that would have been your dependent except that:

Child of divorced or separated parents. For purposes
of the medical and dental expenses deduction, a child of
divorced or separated parents can be treated as a dependent of both parents. Each parent can include the
medical expenses they pay for the child if:

1. The person received gross income of $5,200 or more
in 2025;

1. The child is in the custody of one or both parents for
more than half the year;

Publication 502 (2025)

3

2. The child receives over half of the child’s support during the year from the parents; and
3. The child’s parents:
a. Are divorced or legally separated under a decree
of divorce or separate maintenance,
b. Are separated under a written separation agreement, or
c. Live apart at all times during the last 6 months of
the year.
This doesn’t apply if the child’s dependency is being
claimed under a multiple support agreement (discussed
later).

Qualifying Relative
A qualifying relative is a person:
1. Who is your:
a. Son, daughter, stepchild, or foster child, or a descendant of any of them (for example, your grandchild),
b. Brother, sister, half brother, half sister, or a son or
daughter of any of them,
c. Father, mother, or an ancestor or sibling of either
of them (for example, your grandmother, grandfather, aunt, or uncle),
d. Stepbrother, stepsister, stepfather, stepmother,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, father-in-law,
mother-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, or
e. Any other person (other than your spouse) who
lived with you all year as a member of your household if your relationship didn’t violate local law,
2. Who wasn’t a qualifying child (see Qualifying Child,
earlier) of any taxpayer for 2025, and
3. For whom you provided over half of their support in
2025. But see Child of divorced or separated parents,
earlier, Support claimed under a multiple support
agreement next, and Kidnapped child under Qualifying Relative in Pub. 501.
Support claimed under a multiple support agreement. If you are considered to have provided more than
half of a qualifying relative’s support under a multiple support agreement, you can include medical expenses you
pay for that person. A multiple support agreement is used
when two or more people provide more than half of a person’s support, but no one alone provides more than half.
Any medical expenses paid by others who joined you in
the agreement can’t be included as medical expenses by
anyone. However, you can include the entire unreimbursed amount you paid for medical expenses.
Example. You and your three siblings each provide
one-fourth of your parent’s total support. Under a multiple
support agreement, you treat your parent as your dependent. You paid all of your parent’s medical expenses. Your
4

siblings repaid you for three-fourths of these expenses. In
figuring your medical expense deduction, you can include
only one-fourth of your parent’s medical expenses. Your
siblings can’t include any part of the expenses. However, if
you and your siblings share the nonmedical support items
and you separately pay all of your parent’s medical expenses, you can include the unreimbursed amount you paid
for your parent’s medical expenses in your medical expenses.

Decedent
Medical expenses paid before death by the decedent are
included in figuring any deduction for medical and dental
expenses on the decedent’s final income tax return. This
includes expenses for the decedent’s spouse and dependents as well as for the decedent.
The survivor or personal representative of a decedent
can choose to treat certain expenses paid by the decedent’s estate for the decedent’s medical care as paid by
the decedent at the time the medical services were provided. The expenses must be paid within the 1-year period
beginning with the day after the date of death. If you are
the survivor or personal representative making this choice,
you must attach a statement to the decedent’s Form 1040
or 1040-SR (or the decedent’s amended return, Form
1040-X) saying that the expenses haven’t been and won’t
be claimed on the estate tax return.
Caution: Qualified medical expenses paid before
death by the decedent aren’t deductible if paid with a
tax-free distribution from any Archer MSA, Medicare Advantage MSA, or health savings account.
What if the decedent’s return had been filed and the
medical expenses weren’t included? Form 1040-X
can be filed for the year or years the expenses are treated
as paid, unless the period for claiming a refund has
passed. Generally, a claim for refund must be filed within 3
years of the date the original return was filed, or within 2
years from the time the tax was paid, whichever date is
later.
Example. Hudson properly filed a 2024 income tax return. Hudson died in 2025 with unpaid medical expenses
of $1,500 from 2024 and $1,800 in 2025. If the expenses
are paid within the 1-year period, Hudson’s survivor or
personal representative can file an amended return for
2024 claiming a deduction based on the $1,500 medical
expenses. The $1,800 of medical expenses from 2025
can be included on the decedent’s final return for 2025.
What if you pay medical expenses of a deceased
spouse or dependent? If you paid medical expenses for
your deceased spouse or dependent, include them as
medical expenses on your Schedule A (Form 1040) in the
year paid, whether they are paid before or after the decedent’s death. The expenses can be included if the person
was your spouse or dependent either at the time the medical services were provided or at the time you paid the expenses.
Publication 502 (2025)

What Medical Expenses Are
Includible?
Following is a list of items that you can include in figuring
your medical expense deduction. The items are listed in
alphabetical order.
This list doesn’t include all possible medical expenses.
To determine if an expense not listed can be included in
figuring your medical expense deduction, see What Are
Medical Expenses, earlier.

Abortion
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
for a legal abortion.

Acupuncture
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
for acupuncture.

Alcoholism
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
an inpatient’s treatment at a therapeutic center for alcohol
addiction. This includes meals and lodging provided by
the center during treatment.
You can also include in medical expenses amounts you
pay for transportation to and from alcohol recovery support organization (for example, Alcoholics Anonymous)
meetings in your community if the attendance is pursuant
to competent medical advice that membership in the alcohol recovery support organization is necessary for the
treatment of a disease involving the excessive use of alcohol.

Ambulance
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
ambulance service.

Annual Physical Examination
See Physical Examination, later.

Artificial Limb
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
for an artificial limb.

Artificial Teeth
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
for artificial teeth.
Publication 502 (2025)

Bandages
You can include in medical expenses the cost of medical
supplies such as bandages.

Birth Control Pills
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
for birth control pills prescribed by a doctor.

Body Scan
You can include in medical expenses the cost of an electronic body scan.

Braille Books and Magazines
You can include in medical expenses the part of the cost
of Braille books and magazines for use by a visually impaired person that is more than the cost of regular printed
editions.

Breast Pumps and Supplies
You can include in medical expenses the cost of breast
pumps and supplies that assist lactation. This doesn’t include the costs of excess bottles for food storage.

Breast Reconstruction Surgery
You can include in medical expenses the amounts you pay
for breast reconstruction surgery, as well as breast prosthesis, following a mastectomy for cancer. See Cosmetic
Surgery, later.

Capital Expenses
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
special equipment installed in a home or for improvements
if their main purpose is medical care for you, your spouse,
or your dependent. The cost of permanent improvements
that increase the value of your property may be partly included as a medical expense. The cost of the improvement is reduced by the increase in the value of your property. The difference is a medical expense. If the value of
your property isn’t increased by the improvement, the entire cost is included as a medical expense.
Certain improvements made to accommodate a home
to your disabled condition or that of your spouse or your
dependents who live with you don’t usually increase the
value of the home and the cost can be included in full as
medical expenses. These improvements include, but
aren’t limited to, the following items.

• Constructing entrance or exit ramps for your home.
• Widening doorways at entrances or exits to your
home.

• Widening or otherwise modifying hallways and interior
doorways.

5

• Installing railings, support bars, or other modifications
to bathrooms.

• Lowering or modifying kitchen cabinets and equipment.

• Moving or modifying electrical outlets and fixtures.
• Installing porch lifts and other forms of lifts (but elevators generally add value to the house).

• Modifying fire alarms, smoke detectors, and other
warning systems.

• Modifying stairways.
• Adding handrails or grab bars anywhere (whether or
not in bathrooms).

• Modifying hardware on doors.
• Modifying areas in front of entrance and exit doorways.

• Grading the ground to provide access to the residence.

Only reasonable costs to accommodate a home to your
disabled condition are considered medical care. Additional costs for personal motives, such as for architectural
or aesthetic reasons, aren’t medical expenses.
Capital expense worksheet. Use Worksheet A to figure
the amount of your capital expense to include in your
medical expenses.

as long as the main reason for them is medical care. This
rule applies even if none or only part of the original cost of
the capital asset qualified as a medical care expense.
Improvements to property rented by a person with a
disability. Amounts paid to buy and install special plumbing fixtures for a person with a disability, mainly for medical reasons, in a rented house are medical expenses.
Example. You have arthritis and a heart condition. You
can’t climb stairs or get into a bathtub. On the doctor’s advice, you install a bathroom with a shower stall on the first
floor of your two-story rented house. The landlord didn’t
pay any of the cost of buying and installing the special
plumbing and didn’t lower the rent. You can include the
entire amount you paid as medical expenses.

Car
You can include in medical expenses the cost of special
hand controls and other special equipment installed in a
car for the use of a person with a disability.
Special design. You can include in medical expenses
the difference between the cost of a regular car and a car
specially designed to hold a wheelchair.
Cost of operation. The includible costs of using a car for
medical reasons are explained under Transportation, later.

Chiropractor

Worksheet A. Capital Expense
Worksheet
Keep for Your Records

You can include in medical expenses fees you pay to a
chiropractor for medical care.

Instructions: Use this worksheet to figure the amount, if any, of your
medical expenses due to a home improvement.

Christian Science Practitioner

1. Enter the amount you paid for the home
improvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.

You can include in medical expenses fees you pay to
Christian Science practitioners for medical care.

2. Enter the value of your home
immediately after the
improvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Enter the value of your home
immediately before the
improvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2. This is the
increase in the value of your home due to the
improvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
• If line 4 is more than or equal to line 1, you
have no medical expenses due to the home
improvement; stop here.
• If line 4 is less than line 1, go to line 5.
5. Subtract line 4 from line 1. These are your
medical expenses due to the home
improvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

Condoms
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
to purchase condoms.

Contact Lenses
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
contact lenses needed for medical reasons. You can also
include the cost of equipment and materials required for
using contact lenses, such as saline solution and enzyme
cleaner. See Eyeglasses and Eye Surgery, later.

Crutches
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
to buy or rent crutches.

Operation and upkeep. Amounts you pay for operation
and upkeep of a capital asset qualify as medical expenses
6

Publication 502 (2025)

Dental Treatment

Eyeglasses

You can include in medical expenses the amounts you pay
for the prevention and alleviation of dental disease. Preventive treatment includes the services of a dental hygienist or dentist for such procedures as teeth cleaning, the
application of sealants, and fluoride treatments to prevent
tooth decay. Treatment to alleviate dental disease includes
services of a dentist for procedures such as X-rays, fillings, braces, extractions, dentures, and other dental ailments. But see Teeth Whitening under What Expenses
Aren’t Includible, later.

You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
eyeglasses and contact lenses needed for medical reasons. See Contact Lenses, earlier, for more information.

Diagnostic Devices
You can include in medical expenses the cost of devices
used in diagnosing and treating illness and disease.
Example. You have diabetes and use a blood sugar
test kit to monitor your blood sugar level. You can include
the cost of the blood sugar test kit in your medical expenses.

Disabled Dependent Care Expenses
Some disabled dependent care expenses may qualify as
either:

• Medical expenses, or
• Work-related expenses for purposes of taking a credit

for dependent care. See Pub. 503, Child and Dependent Care Expenses.

You can choose to apply them either way as long as you
don’t use the same expenses to claim both a credit and a
medical expense deduction.

Drug Addiction

Eye Surgery
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
for eye surgery to treat defective vision, such as laser eye
surgery or radial keratotomy.

Fertility Enhancement
You can include in medical expenses the cost of the following procedures performed on yourself, your spouse, or
your dependent to overcome an inability to have children.

• Procedures such as in vitro fertilization (including temporary storage of eggs or sperm).

• Surgery, including an operation to reverse prior sur-

gery that prevented the person operated on from having children.

But see Surrogacy Expenses under What Expenses
Aren’t Includible, later.

Founder’s Fee
See Lifetime Care—Advance Payments, later.

Guide Dog or Other Service Animal
You can include in medical expenses the costs of buying,
training, and maintaining a guide dog or other service animal to assist a visually impaired or hearing disabled person or a person with other physical disabilities. In general,
this includes any costs, such as food, grooming, and veterinary care, incurred in maintaining the health and vitality
of the service animal so that it may perform its duties.

You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
an inpatient’s treatment at a therapeutic center for drug
addiction. This includes meals and lodging provided by
the center during treatment.

Health Institute

You can also include in medical expenses amounts you
pay for transportation to and from drug treatment meetings
in your community if the attendance is pursuant to competent medical advice that the membership is necessary for
the treatment of a disease involving the excessive use of
drugs.

You can include in medical expenses fees you pay for
treatment at a health institute only if the treatment is prescribed by a physician and the physician issues a statement that the treatment is necessary to alleviate a physical
or mental disability or illness of the individual receiving the
treatment.

Drugs

Health Maintenance
Organization (HMO)

See Medicines, later.

Eye Exam
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
for eye examinations.

Publication 502 (2025)

You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay to
entitle you, your spouse, or a dependent to receive medical care from an HMO. These amounts are treated as
medical insurance premiums. See Insurance Premiums,
later.
7

Hearing Aids
You can include in medical expenses the cost of a hearing
aid and batteries, repairs, and maintenance needed to operate it.

Home Care
See Nursing Services, later.

Home Improvements
See Capital Expenses, earlier.

Hospital Services
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
the cost of inpatient care at a hospital or similar institution
if a principal reason for being there is to receive medical
care. This includes amounts paid for meals and lodging.
Also see Lodging, later.

Insurance Premiums
You can include in medical expenses insurance premiums
you pay for policies that cover medical care. You can’t include in medical expenses insurance premiums that were
paid and for which you are claiming a credit or deduction.
Medical care policies can provide payment for treatment
that includes:

• Hospitalization, surgical services, X-rays;
• Prescription drugs and insulin;
• Dental care;
• Replacement of lost or damaged contact lenses; and
• Long-term care (subject to additional limitations). See
Qualified Long-Term Care Insurance Contracts under
Long-Term Care, later.

If you have a policy that provides payments for other
than medical care, you can include the premiums for the
medical care part of the policy if the charge for the medical part is reasonable. The cost of the medical part must
be separately stated in the insurance contract or given to
you in a separate statement.

Employer-Sponsored Health Insurance Plan
Don’t include in your medical and dental expenses any insurance premiums paid by an employer-sponsored health
insurance plan unless the premiums are included on your
Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement. Also, don’t include
any other medical and dental expenses paid by the plan
unless the amount paid is included on your Form W-2.
Example. You are a federal employee participating in
the premium conversion plan of the Federal Employee
Health Benefits (FEHB) program. Your share of the FEHB
premium is paid by making a pre-tax reduction in your salary. Because you are an employee whose insurance
8

premiums are paid with money that is never included in
your gross income, you can’t deduct the premiums paid
with that money.
Long-term care services. Contributions made by your
employer to provide coverage for qualified long-term care
services under a flexible spending or similar arrangement
must be included in your income. This amount will be reported as wages on your Form W-2.
Retired public safety officers. If you are a retired public safety officer, don’t include as medical expenses any
health or long-term care insurance premiums that you
elected to have paid with tax-free distributions from a retirement plan. This applies only to distributions that would
otherwise be included in income.
Health reimbursement arrangement (HRA). If you
have medical expenses that are reimbursed by a health
reimbursement arrangement, you can’t include those expenses in your medical expenses.

Medicare Part A
If you are covered under social security (or if you are a
government employee who paid Medicare tax), you are
enrolled in Medicare Part A. The payroll tax paid for Medicare Part A isn’t a medical expense.
If you aren’t covered under social security (or weren’t a
government employee who paid Medicare tax), you can
voluntarily enroll in Medicare Part A. In this situation, you
can include the premiums you paid for Medicare Part A as
a medical expense.

Medicare Part B
Medicare Part B is a supplemental medical insurance.
Premiums you pay for Medicare Part B are a medical expense. Check the information you received from the Social
Security Administration to find out your premium.

Medicare Part D
Medicare Part D is a voluntary prescription drug insurance
program for persons with Medicare Part A or B. You can
include as a medical expense premiums you pay for Medicare Part D.

Personal Protective Equipment
You can include in medical expenses the amounts you pay
for personal protective equipment, such as masks, hand
sanitizer and hand sanitizing wipes, for the primary purpose of preventing the spread of Coronavirus Disease
2019 (COVID-19). For more information, see IRS Announcement 2021-7.

Prepaid Insurance Premiums
Premiums you pay before you are age 65 for insurance for
medical care for yourself, your spouse, or your
Publication 502 (2025)

dependents after you reach age 65 are medical care expenses in the year paid if they are:
1. Payable in equal yearly installments or more often;
and
2. Payable for at least 10 years, or until you reach age 65
(but not for less than 5 years).

Unused Sick Leave Used To Pay Premiums
You must include in gross income cash payments you receive at the time of retirement for unused sick leave. You
must also include in gross income the value of unused
sick leave that, at your option, your employer applies to
the cost of your continuing participation in your employer’s
health plan after you retire. You can include this cost of
continuing participation in the health plan as a medical expense.
If you participate in a health plan where your employer
automatically applies the value of unused sick leave to the
cost of your continuing participation in the health plan (and
you don’t have the option to receive cash), don’t include
the value of the unused sick leave in gross income. You
can’t include this cost of continuing participation in that
health plan as a medical expense.

• Any person you could have claimed as a dependent

on your return except that person received $5,200 or
more of gross income or filed a joint return; or

• Any person you could have claimed as a dependent

except that you, or your spouse if filing jointly, can be
claimed as a dependent on someone else’s 2025 return.

Also, if you had family coverage when you added this individual to your policy and your premiums didn’t increase,
you can enter on Schedule A (Form 1040) the full amount
of your medical and dental insurance premiums.

Intellectually and Developmentally
Disabled, Special Home for
You can include in medical expenses the cost of keeping a
person who is intellectually and developmentally disabled
in a special home, not the home of a relative, on the recommendation of a psychiatrist to help the person adjust
from life in a mental hospital to community living.

Laboratory Fees
You can include in medical expenses the amounts you pay
for laboratory fees that are part of medical care.

Insurance Premiums You Can’t Include

Lactation Expenses

You can’t include premiums you pay for:

See Breast Pumps and Supplies, earlier.

• Life insurance policies;

• Policies providing payment for loss of earnings;
• Policies for loss of life, limb, sight, etc.;
• Policies that pay you a guaranteed amount each week

for a stated number of weeks if you are hospitalized for
sickness or injury;

• The part of your car insurance that provides medical

insurance coverage for all persons injured in or by
your car because the part of the premium providing insurance for you, your spouse, and your dependents
isn’t stated separately from the part of the premium
providing insurance for medical care for others; or

• Health or long-term care insurance if you elected to

pay these premiums with tax-free distributions from a
retirement plan and these distributions would otherwise have been included in income.

Taxes imposed by any governmental unit, such as Medicare taxes, aren’t insurance premiums.
Coverage for nondependents. Generally, you can’t deduct any additional premium you pay as the result of including on your policy someone who isn’t your spouse or
dependent, even if that person is your child under age 27.
However, you can deduct the additional premium if that
person is:

Lead-Based Paint Removal
You can include in medical expenses the cost of removing
lead-based paints from surfaces in your home to prevent a
child who has or had lead poisoning from eating the paint.
These surfaces must be in poor repair (peeling or cracking) or within the child’s reach. The cost of repainting the
scraped area isn’t a medical expense.
If, instead of removing the paint, you cover the area with
wallboard or paneling, treat these items as capital expenses. See Capital Expenses, earlier. Don’t include the cost
of painting the wallboard as a medical expense.

Learning Disability
See Special Education, later.

Legal Fees
You can include in medical expenses legal fees you paid
that are necessary to authorize treatment for mental illness. However, you can’t include in medical expenses
fees for the management of a guardianship estate, fees for
conducting the affairs of the person being treated, or other
fees that aren’t necessary for medical care.

• Your child whom you don’t claim as a dependent because of the rules for children of divorced or separated parents;

Publication 502 (2025)

9

Lifetime Care—Advance Payments
You can include in medical expenses a part of a life-care
fee or “founder’s fee” you pay either monthly or as a lump
sum under an agreement with a retirement home. The part
of the payment you include is the amount properly allocable to medical care. The agreement must require that you
pay a specific fee as a condition for the home’s promise to
provide lifetime care that includes medical care. You can
use a statement from the retirement home to prove the
amount properly allocable to medical care. The statement
must be based either on the home’s prior experience or on
information from a comparable home.
Dependents with disabilities. You can include in medical expenses advance payments to a private institution for
lifetime care, treatment, and training of your physically or
mentally impaired child upon your death or when you become unable to provide care. The payments must be a
condition for the institution’s future acceptance of your
child and must not be refundable.
Payments for future medical care. Generally, you can’t
include in medical expenses current payments for medical
care (including medical insurance) to be provided substantially beyond the end of the year. This rule doesn’t apply in situations where the future care is purchased in connection with obtaining lifetime care of the type described
earlier.

Lodging
You can include in medical expenses the cost of meals
and lodging at a hospital or similar institution if a principal
reason for being there is to receive medical care. See
Nursing Home, later.
You may be able to include in medical expenses the
cost of lodging not provided in a hospital or similar institution. You can include the cost of such lodging while away
from home if all of the following requirements are met.
1. The lodging is primarily for and essential to medical
care.
2. The medical care is provided by a doctor in a licensed
hospital or in a medical care facility related to or the
equivalent of a licensed hospital.
3. The lodging isn’t lavish or extravagant under the circumstances.
4. There is no significant element of personal pleasure,
recreation, or vacation in the travel away from home.
The amount you include in medical expenses for lodging can’t be more than $50 for each night for each person.
You can include lodging for a person traveling with the person receiving the medical care. For example, if a parent is
traveling with a sick child, up to $100 per night can be included as a medical expense for lodging. Meals aren’t included.
Don’t include the cost of lodging while away from home
for medical treatment if that treatment isn’t received from a
10

doctor in a licensed hospital or in a medical care facility related to, or the equivalent of, a licensed hospital or if that
lodging isn’t primarily for or essential to the medical care
received.

Long-Term Care
You can include in medical expenses amounts paid for
qualified long-term care services and certain amounts of
premiums paid for qualified long-term care insurance contracts.

Qualified Long-Term Care Services
Qualified long-term care services are necessary diagnostic, preventive, therapeutic, curing, treating, mitigating, rehabilitative services, and maintenance and personal care
services (defined later) that are:
1. Required by a chronically ill individual, and
2. Provided pursuant to a plan of care prescribed by a licensed health care practitioner.
Chronically ill individual. An individual is chronically ill
if, within the previous 12 months, a licensed health care
practitioner has certified that the individual meets either of
the following descriptions.
1. The individual is unable to perform at least two activities of daily living without substantial assistance from
another individual for at least 90 days, due to a loss of
functional capacity. Activities of daily living are eating,
toileting, transferring, bathing, dressing, and continence.
2. The individual requires substantial supervision to be
protected from threats to health and safety due to severe cognitive impairment.
Maintenance and personal care services. Maintenance or personal care services is care which has as its
primary purpose the providing of a chronically ill individual
with needed assistance with the individual’s disabilities
(including protection from threats to health and safety due
to severe cognitive impairment).

Qualified Long-Term Care Insurance
Contracts
A qualified long-term care insurance contract is an insurance contract that provides only coverage of qualified
long-term care services. The contract must:
1. Be guaranteed renewable;
2. Not provide for a cash surrender value or other money
that can be paid, assigned, pledged, or borrowed;
3. Provide that refunds, other than refunds on the death
of the insured or complete surrender or cancellation of
the contract, and dividends under the contract must
be used only to reduce future premiums or increase
future benefits; and
Publication 502 (2025)

4. Generally not pay or reimburse expenses incurred for
services or items that would be reimbursed under
Medicare, except where Medicare is a secondary
payer, or the contract makes per diem or other periodic payments without regard to expenses.
The amount of qualified long-term care premiums you
can include is limited. You can include the following as
medical expenses on Schedule A (Form 1040).
1. The most you can include depends on the age at the
end of 2025 of the person for whom the premiums
were paid.
a. Age 40 or under—$480.
b. Age 41 to 50—$900.
c. Age 51 to 60—$1,800.
d. Age 61 to 70—$4,810.
e. Age 71 or over—$6,020.

Except for insulin, you can’t include in medical expenses
amounts you pay for a drug that isn’t prescribed.
Imported medicines and drugs. If you imported medicines or drugs from other countries, see Medicines and
Drugs From Other Countries under What Expenses Aren’t
Includible, later.

Nursing Home
You can include in medical expenses the cost of medical
care in a nursing home, home for the aged, or similar institution, for yourself, your spouse, or your dependents. This
includes the cost of meals and lodging in the home if a
principal reason for being there is to get medical care.
Don’t include the cost of meals and lodging if the reason for being in the home is personal. You can, however,
include in medical expenses the part of the cost that is for
medical or nursing care.

2. Unreimbursed expenses for qualified long-term care
services.

Nursing Services

Note: The limit on premiums is for each person.

You can include in medical expenses wages and other
amounts you pay for nursing services. The services need
not be performed by a nurse as long as the services are of
a kind generally performed by a nurse. This includes services connected with caring for the patient’s condition, such
as giving medication or changing dressings, as well as
bathing and grooming the patient. These services can be
provided in your home or another care facility.

Also, if you are an eligible retired public safety officer,
you can’t include premiums for long-term care insurance if
you elected to pay these premiums with tax-free distributions from a qualified retirement plan made directly to the
insurance provider and these distributions would otherwise have been included in your income.

Meals
You can include in medical expenses the cost of meals at
a hospital or similar institution if a principal reason for being there is to get medical care.
You can’t include in medical expenses the cost of
meals that aren’t part of inpatient care. Also see
Weight-Loss Program and Nutritional Supplements, later.

Medical Conferences
You can include in medical expenses amounts paid for admission and transportation to a medical conference if the
medical conference concerns the chronic illness of yourself, your spouse, or your dependent. The costs of the
medical conference must be primarily for and necessary
to the medical care of you, your spouse, or your dependent. The majority of the time spent at the conference must
be spent attending sessions on medical information.
Caution: The cost of meals and lodging while attending the conference isn’t deductible as a medical expense.

Medicines
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
prescribed medicines and drugs. A prescribed drug is one
that requires a prescription by a doctor for its use by an individual. You can also include amounts you pay for insulin.
Publication 502 (2025)

Generally, only the amount spent for nursing services is
a medical expense. If the attendant also provides personal
and household services, amounts paid to the attendant
must be divided between the time spent performing
household and personal services and the time spent for
nursing services. For example, because of your medical
condition, you pay a visiting nurse $300 per week for medical and household services. Ten percent of the nurse’s
time is spent doing household services such as washing
dishes and laundry. You can include only $270 per week
as medical expenses. The $30 (10% × $300) allocated to
household services can’t be included. However, certain
maintenance or personal care services provided for qualified long-term care can be included in medical expenses.
See Maintenance and personal care services under
Long-Term Care, earlier. Additionally, certain expenses for
household services or for the care of a qualifying individual incurred to allow you to work may qualify for the child
and dependent care credit. See Pub. 503.
You can also include in medical expenses part of the
amount you pay for that attendant’s meals. Divide the food
expense among the household members to find the cost
of the attendant’s food. Then divide that cost in the same
manner as in the preceding paragraph. If you had to pay
additional amounts for household upkeep because of the
attendant, you can include the extra amounts with your
medical expenses. This includes extra rent or utilities you
pay because you moved to a larger apartment to provide
space for the attendant.
11

Employment taxes. You can include as a medical expense social security tax, FUTA, Medicare tax, and state
employment taxes you pay for an attendant who provides
medical care. If the attendant also provides personal and
household services, you can include as a medical expense only the amount of employment taxes paid for medical services, as explained earlier. For information on employment tax responsibilities of household employers, see
Pub. 926.

Operations
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
legal operations that aren’t for cosmetic surgery. See Cosmetic Surgery under What Expenses Aren’t Includible,
later.

Optometrist
See Eyeglasses, earlier.

Organ Donors
See Transplants, later.

Osteopath
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay to
an osteopath for medical care.

Oxygen
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
oxygen and oxygen equipment to relieve breathing problems caused by a medical condition.

Physical Examination
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
for an annual physical examination and diagnostic tests by
a physician. You don’t have to be ill at the time of the examination.

Pregnancy Test Kit
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
to purchase a pregnancy test kit to determine if you are
pregnant.

Premium Tax Credit
You can’t include in medical expenses the amount of
health insurance premiums paid by or through the premium tax credit. You also can’t include in medical expenses any amount of advance payments of the premium tax
credit made that you did not have to pay back. However,
any amount of advance payments of the premium tax
credit that you did have to pay back can be included in
medical expenses.
12

Example 1. You are under age 65 and unmarried. The
cost of your health insurance premiums in 2025 is $8,700.
Advance payments of the premium tax credit of $4,200
are made to the insurance company and you pay premiums of $4,500. On your 2025 tax return, you are allowed a
premium tax credit of $3,600 and must repay $600 excess
advance credit payments (which is less than the repayment limitation). You are treated as paying $5,100 ($8,700
less the allowed premium tax credit of $3,600) for health
insurance premiums in 2025. You will enter $5,100 on
Schedule A (Form 1040), line 1.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except you are allowed a premium tax credit of $4,900 on
your tax return and receive a net premium tax credit of
$700. You are treated as paying $3,800 ($8,700 less the
allowed premium tax credit of $4,900) for health insurance
premiums in 2025. You will enter $3,800 on Schedule A
(Form 1040), line 1.

Prosthesis
See Artificial Limb and Breast Reconstruction Surgery,
earlier.

Psychiatric Care
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
psychiatric care. This includes the cost of supporting a
mentally ill dependent at a specially equipped medical
center where the dependent receives medical care. See
Psychoanalysis next and Transportation, later.

Psychoanalysis
You can include in medical expenses payments for psychoanalysis. However, you can’t include payments for psychoanalysis that is part of required training to be a psychoanalyst.

Psychologist
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay to
a psychologist for medical care.

Special Education
You can include in medical expenses fees you pay on a
doctor’s recommendation for a child’s tutoring by a
teacher who is specially trained and qualified to work with
children who have learning disabilities caused by mental
or physical impairments, including nervous system disorders.
You can include in medical expenses the cost (tuition,
meals, and lodging) of attending a school that furnishes
special education to help a child to overcome learning disabilities. Overcoming the learning disabilities must be the
primary reason for attending the school, and any ordinary
Publication 502 (2025)

education received must be incidental to the special education provided. Special education includes:

• Teaching Braille to a visually impaired person,
• Teaching lip reading to a hearing disabled person, or
• Giving remedial language training to correct a condition caused by a birth defect.

You can’t include in medical expenses the cost of sending a child with behavioral problems to a school where the
course of study and the disciplinary methods have a beneficial effect on the child’s attitude if the availability of medical care in the school isn’t a principal reason for sending
the student there.

Sterilization
You can include in medical expenses the cost of a legal
sterilization (a legally performed operation to make a person unable to have children). Also see Vasectomy, later.

Stop-Smoking Programs
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
a program to stop smoking. However, you can’t include in
medical expenses amounts you pay for drugs that don’t
require a prescription, such as nicotine gum or patches,
that are designed to help stop smoking.

Surgery
See Operations, earlier.

Telephone
You can include in medical expenses the cost of special
telephone equipment that lets a person who is deaf, hard
of hearing, or has a speech disability communicate over a
regular telephone. This includes teletypewriter (TTY) and
telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) equipment.
You can also include the cost of repairing the equipment.

Therapy
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
therapy received as medical treatment.

Transplants
You can include in medical expenses amounts paid for
medical care you receive because you are a donor or a
possible donor of a kidney or other organ. This includes
the cost of medical care for the donor, in connection with
the donation of an organ to you, your spouse, or dependent. This also includes transportation expenses.

Transportation
You can include in medical expenses amounts paid for
transportation primarily for and essential to medical care.
Publication 502 (2025)

You can include:

• Bus, taxi, train, or plane fares or ambulance service;
• Transportation expenses of a parent who must go with
a child who needs medical care;

• Transportation expenses of a nurse or other person

who can give injections, medications, or other treatment required by a patient who is traveling to get medical care and is unable to travel alone; and

• Transportation expenses for regular visits to see a

mentally ill dependent, if these visits are recommended as a part of treatment.

Car expenses. You can include out-of-pocket expenses,
such as the cost of gas and oil, when you use a car for
medical reasons. You can’t include depreciation, insurance, general repair, or maintenance expenses.
If you don’t want to use your actual expenses for 2025,
you can use the standard medical mileage rate of 21 cents
a mile.
You can also include parking fees and tolls. You can
add these fees and tolls to your medical expenses
whether you use actual expenses or the standard mileage
rate.
Example. In 2025, you drove 2,800 miles for medical
reasons. You spent $400 for gas, $30 for oil, and $100 for
tolls and parking. You want to figure the amount to include
in medical expenses both ways to see which gives the
greater deduction.
You figure the actual expenses first. You add the $400
for gas, the $30 for oil, and the $100 for tolls and parking
for a total of $530.
You then figure the standard mileage amount. You multiply 2,800 miles by 21 cents a mile for a total of $588.
Then you add the $100 tolls and parking and mileage for a
total of $688 (588 + 100).
You include the $688 of car expenses with the other
medical expenses for the year because the $688 is more
than the $530 figured using actual expenses.
Transportation expenses you can’t include. You can’t
include in medical expenses the cost of transportation in
the following situations.

• Going to and from work, even if your condition requires an unusual means of transportation.

• Travel for purely personal reasons to another city for
an operation or other medical care.

• Travel that is merely for the general improvement of
one’s health.

• The costs of operating a specially equipped car for
other than medical reasons.

Trips
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
transportation to another city if the trip is primarily for and
essential to receiving medical services. You may be able
to include up to $50 for each night for each person. You
13

can include lodging for a person traveling with the person
receiving the medical care. For example, if a parent is traveling with a sick child, up to $100 per night can be included as a medical expense for lodging. Meals aren’t included. See Lodging, earlier.
You can’t include in medical expenses a trip or vacation
taken merely for a change in environment, improvement of
morale, or general improvement of health, even if the trip
is made on the advice of a doctor. However, see Medical
Conferences, earlier.

Tuition
Under special circumstances, you can include charges for
tuition in medical expenses. See Special Education, earlier.
A lump-sum fee which includes education, board, and
medical care—without distinguishing which part of the fee
results from medical care—is not considered an amount
payable for medical care. However, you can include
charges for a health plan included in a lump-sum tuition
fee if the charges are separately stated or can easily be
obtained from the school.

Vasectomy
You can include in medical expenses the amount you pay
for a vasectomy.

Vision Correction Surgery
See Eye Surgery, earlier.

Weight-Loss Program
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay to
lose weight if it is a treatment for a specific disease diagnosed by a physician (such as obesity, hypertension, or
heart disease). This includes fees you pay for membership in a weight reduction group as well as fees for attendance at periodic meetings. You can’t include membership
dues in a gym, health club, or spa as medical expenses,
but you can include separate fees charged there for
weight loss activities.
You can’t include the cost of diet food or beverages in
medical expenses because the diet food and beverages
substitute for what is normally consumed to satisfy nutritional needs. You can include the cost of special food in
medical expenses only if:
1. The food doesn’t satisfy normal nutritional needs,
2. The food alleviates or treats an illness, and
3. The need for the food is substantiated by a physician.
The amount you can include in medical expenses is limited to the amount by which the cost of the special food exceeds the cost of a normal diet. See also Weight-Loss
Program under What Expenses Aren’t Includible, later.
14

Wheelchair
You can include in medical expenses the amounts you pay
for a wheelchair used for the relief of a sickness or disability. The cost of operating and maintaining the wheelchair
is also a medical expense.

Wig
You can include in medical expenses the cost of a wig purchased upon the advice of a physician for the mental
health of a patient who has lost all of their hair from disease.

X-ray
You can include in medical expenses amounts you pay for
X-rays for medical reasons.

What Expenses Aren’t
Includible?
Following is a list of some items that you can’t include in
figuring your medical expense deduction. The items are
listed in alphabetical order.

Baby Sitting, Childcare, and Nursing
Services for a Normal, Healthy Baby
You can’t include in medical expenses amounts you pay
for the care of children, even if the expenses enable you,
your spouse, or your dependent to get medical or dental
treatment. Also, any expense allowed as a childcare credit
can’t be treated as an expense paid for medical care.

Controlled Substances
You can’t include in medical expenses amounts you pay
for controlled substances (such as marijuana) that aren’t
legal under federal law, even if such substances are legalized by state law.

Cosmetic Surgery
Generally, you can’t include in medical expenses the
amount you pay for cosmetic surgery. This includes any
procedure that is directed at improving the patient’s appearance and doesn’t meaningfully promote the proper
function of the body or prevent or treat illness or disease.
You generally can’t include in medical expenses the
amount you pay for procedures such as face lifts, hair
transplants, hair removal (electrolysis), and liposuction.
You can include in medical expenses the amount you
pay for cosmetic surgery if it is necessary to improve a deformity arising from, or directly related to, a congenital abnormality, a personal injury resulting from an accident or
trauma, or a disfiguring disease.
Publication 502 (2025)

Example. An individual undergoes surgery that removes a breast as part of treatment for cancer. The individual pays a surgeon to reconstruct the breast. The surgery to reconstruct the breast corrects a deformity directly
related to the disease. The cost of the surgery is includible
in the individual’s medical expenses.

Dancing Lessons
You can’t include in medical expenses the cost of dancing
lessons, swimming lessons, etc., even if they are recommended by a doctor, if they are only for the improvement
of general health.

Diaper Service
You can’t include in medical expenses the amount you pay
for diapers or diaper services, unless they are needed to
relieve the effects of a particular disease.

Electrolysis or Hair Removal
See Cosmetic Surgery, earlier.

Flexible Spending Arrangement
You can’t include in medical expenses amounts for which
you are fully reimbursed by your flexible spending arrangement if you contribute a part of your income on a
pre-tax basis to pay for the qualified benefit.

Funeral Expenses

Health Savings Accounts
You can’t include in medical expenses amounts you contribute to a health savings account. You can’t include expenses you pay for with a tax-free distribution from your
health savings account. You also can’t use other funds
equal to the amount of the distribution and include the expenses. For more information, see Pub. 969.

Household Help
You can’t include in medical expenses the cost of household help, even if such help is recommended by a doctor.
This is a personal expense that isn’t deductible. However,
you may be able to include certain expenses paid to a person providing nursing-type services. For more information,
see Nursing Services, earlier, under What Medical Expenses Are Includible. Also, certain maintenance or personal
care services provided for qualified long-term care can be
included in medical expenses. For more information, see
Long-Term Care, earlier, under What Medical Expenses
Are Includible.

Illegal Operations and Treatments
You can’t include in medical expenses amounts you pay
for illegal operations, treatments, or controlled substances
whether rendered or prescribed by licensed or unlicensed
practitioners.

Insurance Premiums

You can’t include in medical expenses amounts you pay
for funerals.

See Insurance Premiums under What Medical Expenses
Are Includible, earlier.

Future Medical Care

Maternity Clothes

Generally, you can’t include in medical expenses current
payments for medical care (including medical insurance)
to be provided substantially beyond the end of the year.
This rule doesn’t apply in situations where the future care
is purchased in connection with obtaining lifetime care, as
explained under Lifetime Care—Advance Payments, or
qualified long-term care insurance contracts, as explained
under Long-Term Care, earlier.

You can’t include in medical expenses amounts you pay
for maternity clothes.

Hair Transplant
See Cosmetic Surgery, earlier.

Health Club Dues
You can’t include in medical expenses health club dues or
amounts paid to improve one’s general health or to relieve
physical or mental discomfort not related to a particular
medical condition.
You can’t include in medical expenses the cost of membership in any club organized for business, pleasure, recreation, or other social purpose.
Publication 502 (2025)

Medical Savings Account (MSA)
You can’t include in medical expenses amounts you contribute to an Archer MSA. You can’t include expenses you
pay for with a tax-free distribution from your Archer MSA.
You also can’t use other funds equal to the amount of the
distribution and include the expenses. For more information on Archer MSAs, see Pub. 969.

Medicines and Drugs From Other
Countries
In general, you can’t include in your medical expenses the
cost of a prescribed drug brought in (or ordered and shipped) from another country. You can only include the cost
of a drug that was imported legally. For example, you can
include the cost of a prescribed drug the Food and Drug
Administration announces can be legally imported by individuals.
15

Swimming Lessons

You can include the cost of a prescribed drug you purchase and consume in another country if the drug is legal
in both the other country and the United States.

See Dancing Lessons, earlier.

Nonprescription Drugs and Medicines

Teeth Whitening

Except for insulin, you can’t include in medical expenses
amounts you pay for a drug that isn’t prescribed. A prescribed drug is one that requires a prescription by a doctor for
its use by an individual.

You can’t include in medical expenses amounts paid to
whiten teeth. See Cosmetic Surgery, earlier.

Example. Your doctor recommends that you take aspirin. Because aspirin is a drug that doesn’t require a
physician’s prescription for its use by an individual, you
can’t include its cost in your medical expenses.

Nutritional Supplements
You can’t include in medical expenses the cost of nutritional supplements, vitamins, herbal supplements, “natural
medicines,” etc., unless they are recommended by a medical practitioner as treatment for a specific medical condition diagnosed by a physician. These items are taken to
maintain your ordinary good health and aren’t for medical
care.

Personal Use Items
You can’t include in medical expenses the cost of an item
ordinarily used for personal, living, or family purposes unless it is used primarily to prevent or alleviate a physical or
mental disability or illness. For example, the cost of a
toothbrush and toothpaste is a nondeductible personal expense.

Veterinary Fees
You generally can’t include veterinary fees in your medical
expenses, but see Guide Dog or Other Service Animal under What Medical Expenses Are Includible, earlier.

Weight-Loss Program
You can’t include in medical expenses the cost of a
weight-loss program if the purpose of the weight loss is
the improvement of appearance, general health, or sense
of well-being. You can’t include amounts you pay to lose
weight unless the weight loss is a treatment for a specific
disease diagnosed by a physician (such as obesity, hypertension, or heart disease). If the weight-loss treatment
isn’t for a specific disease diagnosed by a physician, you
can’t include either the fees you pay for membership in a
weight-reduction group or fees for attendance at periodic
meetings. Also, you can’t include membership dues in a
gym, health club, or spa.
You can’t include the cost of diet food or beverages in
medical expenses because the diet food and beverages
substitute for what is normally consumed to satisfy nutritional needs.

In order to accommodate an individual with a physical
disability, you may have to purchase an item ordinarily
used as a personal, living, or family item in a special form.
You can include the excess of the cost of the item in a special form over the cost of the item in normal form as a
medical expense. See Braille Books and Magazines under What Medical Expenses Are Includible, earlier.

See Weight-Loss Program under What Medical Expenses Are Includible, earlier.

Premium Tax Credit

You can include in medical expenses only those amounts
paid during the tax year for which you received no insurance or other reimbursement.

You can’t include in medical expenses the amount of
health insurance premiums paid by or through the premium tax credit. You also can’t include in medical expenses any amount of advance payments of the premium tax
credit made that you did not have to pay back. However,
any amount of advance payments of the premium tax
credit that you did have to pay back can be included in
medical expenses.

Surrogacy Expenses
You can’t include in medical expenses the amounts you
pay for the identification, retention, compensation, and
medical care of a gestational surrogate because they are
paid for an unrelated party who is not you, your spouse, or
your dependent.
16

How Do You Treat
Reimbursements?

Insurance Reimbursement
You must reduce your total medical expenses for the year
by all reimbursements for medical expenses that you receive from insurance or other sources during the year.
This includes payments from Medicare.
Even if a policy provides reimbursement only for certain
specific medical expenses, you must use amounts you receive from that policy to reduce your total medical expenses, including those it doesn’t reimburse.
Example. You have insurance policies that cover your
hospital and doctors’ bills but not your nursing bills. The
insurance you receive for the hospital and doctors’ bills is
Publication 502 (2025)

more than their charges. In figuring your medical deduction, you must reduce the total amount you spent for medical care by the total amount of insurance you received,
even if the policies don’t cover some of your medical expenses.
Health reimbursement arrangement (HRA). An HRA
is an employer-funded plan that reimburses employees for
medical care expenses and allows unused amounts to be
carried forward. An HRA is funded solely by the employer
and the reimbursements for medical expenses, up to a
maximum dollar amount for a coverage period, aren’t included in your income.
Other reimbursements. Generally, you don’t reduce
medical expenses by payments you receive for:

• Permanent loss or loss of use of a member or function
of the body (loss of limb, sight, hearing, etc.) or disfigurement to the extent the payment is based on the nature of the injury without regard to the amount of time
lost from work, or

• Loss of earnings.
You must, however, reduce your medical expenses by
any part of these payments that is designated for medical
costs. See How Do You Figure and Report the Deduction
on Your Tax Return, later.
For how to treat damages received for personal injury
or sickness, see Damages for Personal Injuries, later.

What if Your Insurance Reimbursement Is
More Than Your Medical Expenses?

Premiums paid by you. If you pay either the entire premium for your medical insurance or all the costs of a plan
similar to medical insurance and your insurance payments
or other reimbursements are more than your total medical
expenses for the year, you have excess reimbursement.
Generally, you don’t include the excess reimbursement in
your gross income. However, gross income does include
total payments in excess of $420 a day ($153,300 for
2025) for qualified long-term care services.
Premiums paid by you and your employer. If both you
and your employer contribute to your medical insurance
plan and your employer’s contributions aren’t included in
your gross income, you must include in your gross income
the part of your excess reimbursement that is from your
employer’s contribution.
If you aren’t covered by more than one policy, you can
figure the amount of the excess reimbursement you must
include in gross income using Worksheet B. If you are covered under more than one policy, see More than one policy, later.

More than one policy. If you are covered under more
than one policy, the cost of at least one of which is paid by
both you and your employer, you must first divide the medical expenses among the policies to figure the excess reimbursement from each policy. Then divide the policy
costs to figure the part of any excess reimbursement that
is from your employer’s contribution. Any excess reimbursement that is due to your employer’s contributions is
includible in your income.
You can figure the part of the excess reimbursement
that is from your employer’s contribution by using Worksheet C. Use Worksheet C only if both you and your employer paid part of the cost of at least one policy. If you
had more than one policy but you didn’t share in the cost
of at least one policy, don’t use Worksheet C.

Figure 1. Is Your Excess Medical
Reimbursement Taxable?
Was any part of
your premiums
paid by your
employer?

No
䊲

NONE of the
excess
reimbursement is
taxable.

Yes
䊲

Were your
employer’s
contributions to
your premiums
included in your
income?

䊴

If you are reimbursed more than your medical expenses,
you may have to include the excess in income. You may
want to use Figure 1 to help you decide if any of your reimbursement is taxable.

insurance plan and your employer’s contributions aren’t included in your income, you must report all of your excess
reimbursement as other income.

Yes

No
䊲

Did you pay any
part of the
premiums?

No

ALL of the excess
䊳 reimbursement is

taxable.

Yes

PART of the
excess
䊳
reimbursement is
taxable.*
*See Premiums paid by you and your employer.

Premiums paid by your employer. If your employer or
your former employer pays the total cost of your medical
Publication 502 (2025)

17

Worksheet B. Excess Reimbursement
Includible in Income
When You Have Only
One Policy
Keep for Your Records
Instructions: Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess
reimbursement you must include in income when both you and your
employer contributed to your medical insurance and your employer’s
contributions aren’t included in your gross income.

1. Enter the amount contributed to your
medical insurance for the year by your
employer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.

10. Divide line 8 by line 9. This is the
percentage of your total excess
reimbursement you must report as other
income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. Multiply line 7 by line 10. This is the
amount of your total excess
reimbursement you must report as other
income on Form 1040 or 1040-SR . . . . . . 11.

If you are reimbursed in a later year for medical expenses
you deducted in an earlier year, you must generally report
the reimbursement as income up to the amount you previously deducted as medical expenses.

3. Divide line 1 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Enter the amount of excess
reimbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

However, don’t report as income the amount of reimbursement you received up to the amount of your medical
deductions that didn’t reduce your tax for the earlier year.

5. Multiply line 3 by line 4. This is the
amount of the excess reimbursement you must include as other income
on Form 1040 or 1040-SR . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

Worksheet C. Excess Reimbursement
Includible in Income
When You Have More
Than One Policy
Keep for Your Records
Instructions: Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess
reimbursement you must include as income on your tax return when
(a) you are reimbursed under two or more health insurance policies,
(b) at least one of which is paid for by both you and your employer,
and (c) your employer’s contributions aren’t included in your gross
income. If you and your employer didn’t share in the cost of at least
one policy, don’t use this worksheet.

1. Enter the reimbursement from your
employer’s policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. Enter the reimbursement from your own
policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Add lines 1 and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Divide line 1 by line 3

4.

5. Enter the total medical expenses you paid
during the year. If this amount is at least as
much as the amount on line 3, stop here
because there is no excess
reimbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Multiply line 4 by line 5

...............

6.

7. Subtract line 6 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8. Enter employer’s contribution to the annual
cost of the employer’s policy . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

18

9.

What if You Receive Insurance
Reimbursement in a Later Year?

2. Enter the total annual cost of the
policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.

................

9. Enter total annual cost of the employer’s
policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

For more information about the recovery of an amount
that you claimed as an itemized deduction in an earlier
year, see Recoveries in Pub. 525.

What if You Are Reimbursed for Medical
Expenses You Didn’t Deduct?
If you didn’t deduct a medical expense in the year you
paid it because your medical expenses weren’t more than
7.5% of your AGI or because you didn’t itemize deductions, don’t include the reimbursement, up to the amount
of the expense, in income. However, if the reimbursement
is more than the expense, see What if Your Insurance Reimbursement Is More Than Your Medical Expenses, earlier.

How Do You Figure and Report
the Deduction on Your Tax
Return?
Once you have determined which medical expenses you
can include, figure and report the deduction on your tax
return.

What Tax Form Do You Use?
You report your medical expense deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040). See the Instructions for Schedule A
(Form 1040) for more detailed information on figuring your
medical and dental expense deduction.

Publication 502 (2025)

Worksheet D. Adjusted Basis of
Medical Equipment or
Property Sold
Keep for Your Records
Instructions: Use this worksheet if you deducted the cost of medical
equipment or property in one year and sold the equipment or
property in a later year. This worksheet will give you the adjusted
basis of the equipment or property you sold.

1.

Enter the cost of the equipment or
property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2.

Enter your total includible medical
expenses for the year you included
the cost in your medical
expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3.

Divide line 1 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4.

Enter 7.5% or 10% of your AGI
(whichever applies) for the year the
cost was included in your medical
expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5.

Sale of Medical Equipment or
Property
If you deduct the cost of medical equipment or property in
one year and sell it in a later year, you may have a taxable
gain. The taxable gain is the amount of the selling price
that is more than the adjusted basis of the equipment or
property.
The adjusted basis is the portion of the cost of the
equipment or property that you couldn’t deduct because
of the 7.5% or 10% AGI limit used to figure your medical
deduction. Refer to your Schedule A (Form 1040) for the
year the cost was included to determine which limit applied to you. Use Worksheet D to figure the adjusted basis
of the equipment or property.
Next, use Worksheet E to figure the total gain or loss on
the sale of the medical equipment or property.

Worksheet E. Gain or Loss on the
Sale of Medical
Equipment or Property
Keep for Your Records

Multiply line 3 by line 4. If your
allowable itemized deductions for the
year you purchased the equipment
or property weren’t more than your
AGI for that year, stop here. This is
the adjusted basis of the equipment
or property. If your allowable itemized
deductions for the year you
purchased the equipment or property
were more than your AGI for that
year, complete lines 6 through
11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6.

Subtract line 5 from line 1 . . . . . . . .

6.

7.

Enter your total allowable itemized
deductions for the year the cost was
included in your medical
expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8.

Divide line 6 by line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9.

Enter your AGI for the year the cost
was included in your medical
expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

10.

Subtract line 9 from line 7 . . . . . . . .

10.

11.

Multiply line 8 by line 10

.........

11.

12.

Add line 5 to line 11. If your allowable
itemized deductions for the year you
purchased the equipment or property
were more than your AGI for that
year, this is the adjusted basis of the
equipment or property . . . . . . . . . . .

If you have a loss, it isn’t deductible. If you have a gain,
it’s includible in your income. The part of the gain that is a
recovery of an amount you previously deducted is taxable
as ordinary income. Enter it on Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
Any part of the gain that is more than the recovery of an
amount you previously deducted is taxable as a capital
gain. Enter it on Form 8949, Sales and Other Dispositions
of Capital Assets, and Schedule D (Form 1040), Capital
Gains and Losses.

12.

For more information about the recovery of an amount
that you claimed as an itemized deduction in an earlier
year, see Recoveries in Pub. 525.

Instructions: Use the following worksheet to figure total gain or
loss on the sale of medical equipment or property that you
deducted in an earlier year.

1. Enter the amount that the medical
equipment or property sold for . . . . . . 1.

Recordkeeping. You should keep records of your
medical and dental expenses to support your deRECORDS duction. Don’t send these records with your paper
return.
Publication 502 (2025)

2. Enter your selling expenses . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Enter the adjusted basis of the
equipment or property from Worksheet
D, line 5, or line 12, if applicable . . . . . . 4.
5. Subtract line 4 from line 3. This is the
total gain or loss from the sale of the
medical equipment or property . . . . . . 5.

19

Damages for Personal Injuries
If you receive an amount in settlement of a personal injury
suit, part of that award may be for medical expenses that
you deducted in an earlier year. If it is, you must include
that part in your income in the year you receive it to the extent it reduced your taxable income in the earlier year. See
What if You Receive Insurance Reimbursement in a Later
Year, discussed earlier under How Do You Treat Reimbursements.
Example. You sued this year for injuries you suffered
in an accident last year. You sought $10,000 for your injuries and didn’t itemize your damages. Last year, you paid
$500 for medical expenses for your injuries. You deducted
those expenses on last year’s tax return. This year you
settled your lawsuit for $2,000. Your settlement didn’t itemize or allocate the damages. The $2,000 is first presumed
to be for the medical expenses that you deducted. The
$500 is includible in your income this year because you
deducted the entire $500 as a medical expense deduction
last year.
Future medical expenses. If you receive an amount in
settlement of a damage suit for personal injuries, part of
that award may be for future medical expenses. If it is, you
must reduce any future medical expenses for these injuries until the amount you received has been completely
used.
Example. You were injured in an accident. You sued
and sought a judgment of $50,000 for your injuries. You
settled the suit for $45,000. The settlement provided that
$10,000 of the $45,000 was for future medical expenses
for your injuries. You can’t include the first $10,000 that
you pay for medical expenses for those injuries.
Workers’ compensation. If you received workers’ compensation and you deducted medical expenses related to
that injury, you must include the workers’ compensation in
income up to the amount you deducted. If you received
workers’ compensation but didn’t deduct medical expenses related to that injury, don’t include the workers’ compensation in your income.

Impairment-Related Work
Expenses
If you are a person with disabilities, you can take a business deduction for expenses that are necessary for you to
be able to work. If you take a business deduction for these
impairment-related work expenses, they aren’t subject to
the 7.5% limit that applies to medical expenses.
You have a disability if you have:

• A physical or mental disability (for example, blindness
or deafness) that functionally limits your being employed; or

20

• A physical or mental impairment (for example, a sight

or hearing impairment) that substantially limits one or
more of your major life activities, such as performing
manual tasks, walking, speaking, breathing, learning,
or working.

Impairment-related expenses defined. Impairment-related expenses are those ordinary and necessary business expenses that are:

• Necessary for you to do your work satisfactorily;
• For goods and services not required or used, other
than incidentally, in your personal activities; and

• Not specifically covered under other income tax laws.
Where to report. If you are self-employed, deduct the
business expenses on the appropriate form (Schedule C,
E, or F) used to report your business income and expenses.
If you are an employee, complete Form 2106, Employee Business Expenses. Enter on Schedule A (Form
1040) that part of the amount on Form 2106 that is related
to your impairment.
Example. You are blind. You must use a reader to do
your work. You use the reader both during your regular
working hours at your place of work and outside your regular working hours away from your place of work. The
reader’s services are only for your work. You can deduct
your expenses for the reader as business expenses.

Health Insurance Costs for
Self-Employed Persons
If you were self-employed and had a net profit for the year,
you may be able to deduct, as an adjustment to income,
amounts paid for health insurance (which includes medical, dental, and vision insurance and qualified long-term
care insurance) on behalf of yourself, your spouse, your
dependents, and your children who were under age 27 at
the end of 2025. For this purpose, you were self-employed
if you were a general partner (or a limited partner receiving
guaranteed payments) or you received wages from an S
corporation in which you were more than a 2% shareholder. The insurance plan must be established under
your trade or business and the deduction can’t be more
than your earned income from that trade or business.
You can’t deduct payments for health insurance for any
month in which you were eligible to participate in a health
plan subsidized by your employer, your spouse’s employer, or an employer of your dependent, or your child under age 27, at the end of 2025. You can’t deduct payments
for a qualified long-term care insurance contract for any
month in which you were eligible to participate in a
long-term care insurance plan subsidized by your employer or your spouse’s employer.
If you qualify to take the deduction, use the Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet in the
Instructions for Form 1040 to figure the amount you can
Publication 502 (2025)

deduct. But if any of the following applies, don’t use that
worksheet.

• You had more than one source of income subject to
self-employment tax.

• You file Form 2555, Foreign Earned Income.
• You are using amounts paid for qualified long-term
care insurance to figure the deduction.

If you can’t use the worksheet in the Instructions for Form
1040, use Form 7206, Self-Employed Health Deduction,
to figure your deduction.
Use Pub. 974, Premium Tax Credit, instead of the worksheet in the 2025 Instructions for Form 1040 if the insurance plan established or considered to be established under your business was obtained through the Health
Insurance Marketplace and you are claiming the premium
tax credit.
When figuring the amount you can deduct for insurance
premiums, don’t include amounts paid for health insurance coverage with retirement plan distributions that were
tax free because you are a retired public safety officer.
Where to report. You take this deduction on Form 1040
or 1040-SR. If you itemize your deductions and don’t claim
100% of your self-employed health insurance costs on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, include any remaining premiums
with all other medical expenses on Schedule A (Form
1040) subject to the 7.5% limit.
Child under age 27. If the insurance policy covers your
nondependent child who was under age 27 at the end of
2025, you can claim the premiums for that coverage on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR. If you can’t claim 100% of your
self-employed health insurance costs on Form 1040 or
1040-SR, any excess amounts attributable to that child
aren’t eligible to be claimed on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Generally, family health insurance premiums don’t increase if coverage for an additional child is added. If this is
the situation, no allocation would be necessary. If the premiums did increase (such as where coverage was expanded from single to family to add the nondependent child),
you can allocate the amount on Form 1040 or 1040-SR to
the nondependent child and any excess amounts not attributable to that child would be eligible to be claimed on
Schedule A (Form 1040).
Example 1. You were self-employed in 2025 and had
self-only coverage for health insurance. Your premium for
that coverage was $5,000 for the year. You change to family coverage only to add your 26-year-old nondependent
child to the plan. Your health insurance premium increases
to $10,000 for the year. After completing the Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet in the Instructions for Form 1040, you can only deduct $4,000 on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR. The $4,000 is allocable to the
nondependent child. You can only claim the $5,000 allocable to your coverage on Schedule A (Form 1040). The
$1,000 excess premiums allocable to the nondependent
child can’t be claimed by you.

Publication 502 (2025)

Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that you had family coverage when you added your
26-year-old nondependent child to the policy. There was
no increase in the $10,000 premium. In this case, you
could claim $4,000 on Form 1040 or 1040-SR and $6,000
on Schedule A (Form 1040).
More information. For more information, see Instructions for Form 7206, Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
21

Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

22

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the
CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

!

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English
and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian,
and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
Publication 502 (2025)

receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You’ll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
Publication 502 (2025)

taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information

23

on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s

free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and
appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the
Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and
click on “Local Offices.”

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.

Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

————————————————————————

What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/1040X for information and updates.

How Can TAS Help Me?

Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.

TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS. Our services are free.

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our sysCAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able to use
the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information,
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
24

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn’t working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.
Publication 502 (2025)

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
Index

• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A

Abortion 5
Acupuncture 5
Adopted child's medical
expenses 3
AGI limitation 1, 2
Alcoholism 5
Ambulances 5
Archer MSAs:
Medical expenses paid for decedent
from 4
Artificial limbs 5
Artificial teeth 5
Aspirin 16
Assistance (See Tax help)
Assisted living homes 11
Athletic club dues 15
Automobiles (See Cars)

B

Baby sitting 14
Bandages 5
Basis:
Medical equipment or property
(Worksheet D) 19
Birth control pills 5
Body scan 5
Braille books and magazines 5
Breast pumps and supplies 5
Breast reconstruction surgery 5

C

Calculation of deduction 18
Capital expenses 5
Improvements to rented property 6
Operation and upkeep 6
Worksheet A 6
Cars 6
Out-of-pocket expenses 13
Standard medical mileage rates 13
Child care 14
Children's medical expenses:
Adopted child 3
Dependents 3

Publication 502 (2025)

Chiropractor 6
Christian Scientist practitioner 6
Chronically ill persons 10
Community property states 2
Contact lenses 6
Controlled substances 14
Cosmetic surgery 14
Crutches 6

Employer-sponsored health
insurance plans 8
Employment taxes 12
Excluded expenses:
Insurance premiums 9
Eye exam 7
Eye surgery 7
Eyeglasses 7

D

F

Dancing lessons 15
Decedent's medical expenses 4
Deductible amount 2
Deductible expenses 3-14
Definition of medical expenses:
Doctor 2
Physician 2
Dental treatment 7
Artificial teeth 5
Teeth whitening 16
Dentures 5
Dependent's medical expenses:
Adopted child 3
Multiple support agreement 4
Qualifying child 3
Qualifying relative 3
Dependents:
Disabled dependent care 7, 10
Diagnostic devices 7
Diaper services 15
Disabilities, persons with:
Dependent care expenses 7, 10
Improvements to rented property 6
Special education 12
Divorced taxpayers:
Medical expenses of child 3
Drug addiction 7
Drugs (See Medicines)
Dues:
Health club 15

E

Education, special 12
Electrolysis 14

Fertility enhancement:
Eggs, temporary storage of 7
Fertility 7
In vitro fertilization 7
Figuring the deduction 18
Final return for decedent:
Medical expenses paid 4
Flexible spending arrangement 15
Food (See Weight-loss programs)
Form 1040 or 1040-SR:
Self-employed persons, health
insurance costs 20
Form 1040-X:
Amended return 2
Deceased taxpayer 4
Form 1040, Schedule A:
Impairment-related work
expenses 20
Medical and dental expenses 1, 18
Self-employed persons, health
insurance costs 20
Form 1040, Schedule C:
Impairment-related work
expenses 20
Form 1040, Schedule E:
Impairment-related work
expenses 20
Form 1040, Schedule F:
Impairment-related work
expenses 20
Form 2106:
Impairment-related work
expenses 20
Form 2555:
Self-employed persons, health
insurance costs 20
25

Founder's fee (See Lifetime care,
advance payments)
Funeral expenses 15
Future medical care 10, 15

Intellectually and developmentally
disabled persons:
Mentally disabled 9
Special homes for 9

G

L

Glasses 7
Guide dog or other animal 7

H

Hair:
Removal 14
Transplants 14
Wigs 14
Health club dues 15
Health institutes 7
Health insurance:
Employer-sponsored plan 8
Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation (PBGC) recipient 20
Premiums:
Deductible 8
Nondeductible 9
Paid by employer 17
Paid by employer and you 17
Paid by you 17
Prepaid 8
Unused sick leave used to pay 9
Reimbursements
(See Reimbursements)
Self-employed persons 20
Health maintenance organizations
(HMOs) 7
Health reimbursement
arrangements (HRAs) 17
Health savings accounts (HSAs):
Payments from 15
Hearing aids 8
Hearing-impaired persons:
Guide dog or other animal for 7
HMOs (Health maintenance
organizations) 7
Home care (See Nursing services)
Home improvements (See Capital
expenses:)
Hospital services 8
Hotels 10
Household help 15
HRAs (Health reimbursement
arrangements) 17

I

Illegal operations and
treatments 15
Illegal substances 14
Impairment-related work
expenses 20
Reporting of 20
Insulin 16
Insurance (See Health insurance)

26

Laboratory fees 9
Lactation expenses (See Breast
pumps and supplies)
Laser eye surgery 7
Lead-based paint removal 9
Learning disabilities 12
Legal fees 9
Lessons, dancing and
swimming 15
Lifetime care:
Advance payments for 10
Lodging 10, 13
(See also Trips)
Long-term care 10
Chronically ill individuals 10
Maintenance and personal care
services 10
Qualified insurance contracts 10
Qualified services 10

M

Maintenance and personal care
services 10
Maternity clothes 15
Meals 11, 14
(See also Weight-loss programs)
Medical conferences 11
Medical equipment or property:
Adjusted basis (Worksheet D) 19
Medical expense records 19
Medical savings accounts
(MSAs) 15
Medicare:
Medicare Part A, deductible
expense 8
Medicare Part B, deductible
expense 8
Medicare Part D, deductible
expense 8
Medicines 11
Imported 11, 15
Nonprescription drugs and
medicines 16
Missing children, photographs of in
IRS publications 1
Multiple support agreement 4

N

Nondeductible expenses 14-16
Nonprescription drugs and
medicines 16
Nursing homes 11
Nursing services 11, 14
Chronically ill individuals 10
Nutritional supplements:
Natural medicines 16

O

Operations 12
Cosmetic surgery 14
Illegal operations and
treatments 15
Optometrist 12
Organ donors 13
Osteopath 12
Oxygen 12

P

Parking fees and tolls 13
Personal injury damages 20
Personal protective equipment 8
Personal use items 16
Physical examination 12
Physical therapy 13
Plastic surgery 14
Pregnancy test kit 12
Premium Tax Credit 12
Premiums (See Health insurance)
Prepaid insurance premiums 8
Prosthesis 5
Psychiatric care 12
Psychoanalysis 12
Psychologists 12
Publications (See Tax help)

R

Radial keratotomy 7
Recordkeeping 19
Rehabilitation facilities 11
Reimbursements 16-18
Excess includible in income:
More than one policy (Worksheet
C) 17
One policy (Worksheet B) 18
Excess may be taxable (Figure
1) 17
Health Reimbursement
Arrangement (HRA) 17
Insurance 16, 17
Medical expenses not deducted 18
More than one policy 17
Received in later year 18
Rental property:
Improvements to 6
Reporting:
Impairment-related work
expenses 20
Medical and dental expenses 18
Medical deduction (See Form 1040,
Schedule A)
Self-employed persons, health
insurance costs 20

S

Sale of medical equipment or
property 19
Adjusted basis (Worksheet D) 19
Publication 502 (2025)

Schedules (See Form 1040 or 1040SR)
Seeing-eye dogs 7
Self-employed persons:
Health insurance costs 20
Senior housing 11
Separate returns:
Community property states 2
Medical and dental expenses 2
Separated taxpayers:
Medical expenses of child 3
Service animals 7
Sick leave:
Used to pay health insurance
premiums 9
Special education 12
Spouse's medical expenses 3
Deceased spouse 4
Sterilization 13
Stop-smoking programs 13
Surgery (See Operations)
Surrogacy expenses 16
Swimming lessons 15

Reimbursements, excess includible
in income:
More than one policy (Worksheet
C) 17
One policy (Worksheet B) 18
Reimbursements, excess may be
taxable (Figure 1) 17
Tax help 21
Teeth:
Artificial 5
Dental treatment 7
Whitening 16
Telephone 13
Therapy 13
Transplants 13
Travel and transportation
expenses 13
Car expenses 13
Includible expenses 13
Parking fees and tolls 13
Trips 13
Tuition 14

Visually impaired persons:
Guide dog or other animal for 7
Vitamins or minerals 16

W

Weight-loss programs 14, 16
Wheelchairs 14
Wigs 14
Work expenses:
Disabled dependent care 7
Impairment-related 20
Workers' compensation 20
Worksheets:
Capital expenses (Worksheet A) 6
Medical equipment or property:
Adjusted basis (Worksheet D) 19
Reimbursements, excess includible
in income:
More than one policy (Worksheet
C) 17
One policy (Worksheet B) 18

V

Vasectomy 14
T
Veterinary fees 16
Tables and figures:
Vision
correction surgery 7
Medical equipment or property:
Adjusted basis (Worksheet D) 19

Publication 502 (2025)

27

