Contents
Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

Publication 555

Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2

(Rev. December 2024)

Community
Property

Domicile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Community or Separate Property and Income . . . . 3
Registered Domestic Partnerships . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Identifying Income, Deductions, and Credits . . . . . 5
Community Property Laws Disregarded . . . . . . . . 8
End of the Community . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Preparing a Federal Income Tax Return . . . . . . . . 10
How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 555, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub555.

Reminders

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Feb 18, 2025

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Same-sex marriages. For federal tax purposes, marriages of couples of the same sex are treated the same as
marriages of couples of the opposite sex. For federal tax
purposes, the term “spouse” means an individual lawfully
married to another individual and includes an individual
married to a person of the same sex. However, individuals
who have entered into a registered domestic partnership,
civil union, or other similar relationship that isn't considered a marriage under state law aren't considered married
for federal tax purposes.
Registered domestic partnership. Descriptions of registered domestic partnerships and related topics have
been included in the relevant sections.
Divorce or separation instruments after 2018.
Amounts paid as alimony or separate maintenance payments under a divorce or separation instrument executed
after 2018 won’t be deductible by the payer. Such
amounts also won’t be includible in the income of the recipient. The same is true of alimony paid under a divorce
or separation instrument executed before 2019 and modified after 2018, if the modification expressly states that the
alimony isn’t deductible to the payer or includible in the income of the recipient.
Personal exemption suspended. Beginning in 2018,
you can’t claim a personal exemption for yourself, your
spouse, or your dependents.
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children
selected by the Center may appear in this publication on

Publication 555 (Rev. 12-2024) Catalog Number 15103C
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
Community property laws generally. Community property laws affect how you figure your income on your federal income tax return if you are married, live in a community property state or country, and file separate returns.
If you are married, your tax will usually be less if you file
married filing jointly than if you file married filing separately. However, sometimes it can be to your advantage to
file separate returns. If you and your spouse file separate
returns, you have to determine your community income
and your separate income.
Community property laws also affect your basis in property you inherit from a married person who lived in a community property state. See Death of spouse, later.
Note. This publication doesn't address the federal tax
treatment of income or property subject to the “community
property” election under Alaska, Tennessee, and South
Dakota state laws.
Married individuals. This publication is for married
taxpayers who are domiciled in one of the following community property states.

• Arizona.
• California.
• Idaho.
• Louisiana.
• Nevada.
• New Mexico.
• Texas.
• Washington.
• Wisconsin.

Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publications
504 Divorced or Separated Individuals
504

505 Tax Withholding and Estimated Tax
505

971 Innocent Spouse Relief
971

Forms (and Instructions)
8857 Request for Innocent Spouse Relief
8857

Registered domestic partners (RDPs). This publication is also for RDPs who are domiciled in Nevada,
Washington, or California. RDPs in Nevada, Washington,
or California must generally follow state community property laws and report half the combined community income
of the individual and his or her RDP.
RDPs aren't married for federal tax purposes. They can
use the single filing status or, if they qualify, the head of
household filing status.
You can find answers to frequently asked ques-

TIP tions by going to IRS.gov/Pub555 and clicking on

Answers to Frequently Asked Questions for Registered Domestic Partners and Individuals in Civil Unions
under Other Items You May Find Useful.

8958 Allocation of Tax Amounts Between Certain
Individuals in Community Property States
8958

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for
information about getting these publications and forms.

Domicile
The law of the state, or the law of the foreign country,
where you are domiciled will determine if you have community property, community income, or both. If you and
your spouse (or your RDP) have different domiciles, check
the laws of each to see if you have community property,
community income, or both.
You have only one domicile even if you have more than
one home. Your domicile is a permanent legal home that

2

Publication 555 (12-2024)

you intend to use for an indefinite or unlimited period, and
to which, when absent, you intend to return. The question
of your domicile is mainly a matter of your intention as indicated by your actions. You must be able to show that
you intend a given place or state to be your permanent
home. If you move into or out of a community property
state during the year, you may or may not have community
income.
Factors considered in determining domicile include:

• Where you pay state income tax,
• Where you vote,
• Location of property you own,
• Your citizenship,
• Length of residence, and
• Business and social ties to the community.
Amount of time spent. The amount of time spent in one
place doesn't always explain the difference between home
and domicile. A temporary home or residence may continue for months or years while a domicile may be established the first moment you occupy the property. Your intent is the determining factor in proving where you have
your domicile.
Note. When this publication refers to where you live, it
means your domicile.

Community or Separate
Property and Income
If you file a federal tax return separately from your spouse,
you must report half of all community income and all of
your separate income. Likewise, an RDP must report half
of all community income and all of his or her separate income on his or her federal tax return. You each must attach your Form 8958 to your return showing how you figured the amount you are reporting on your return.

Community income. Generally, community income is income from:

• Community property;
• Salaries, wages, and other pay received for the serv-

ices performed by you, your spouse (or your RDP), or
both during your marriage (or registered domestic
partnership) while domiciled in a community property
state; and

• Real estate that is treated as community property un-

der the laws of the state where the property is located.

Separate property. Generally, separate property is:

• Property that you or your spouse (or your RDP) owned
separately before your marriage (or registered domestic partnership);

• Money earned while domiciled in a noncommunity
property state;

• Property that you or your spouse (or your RDP) re-

ceived separately as a gift or inheritance during your
marriage (or registered domestic partnership);

• Property that you or your spouse (or your RDP)

bought with separate funds, or acquired in exchange
for separate property, during your marriage (or registered domestic partnership);

• Property that you and your spouse (or your RDP) converted from community property to separate property
through an agreement valid under state law; and

• The part of property bought with separate funds, if part
was bought with community funds and part with separate funds.

Separate income. Generally, income from separate
property is the separate income of the spouse (or the
RDP) who owns the property.
In Idaho, Louisiana, Texas, and Wisconsin, income from most separate property is community
CAUTION income.

!

Generally, the laws of the state in which you are domiciled govern whether you have community property and
community income or separate property and separate income for federal tax purposes. The following is a summary
of the general rules. These rules are also shown in Table 1.
Community property. Generally, community property is
property:

• That you, your spouse (or your RDP), or both acquire

during your marriage (or registered domestic partnership) while you and your spouse (or your RDP) are domiciled in a community property state;

• That you and your spouse (or your RDP) agreed to
convert from separate to community property; and

• That can't be identified as separate property.

Publication 555 (12-2024)

3

Registered Domestic
Partnerships
Community and separate property. An RDP must report half of all community income and all of his or her separate income unless certain exceptions apply. For example, if the RDP acted as if he or she was the only one
entitled to the income and didn't notify his or her partner of
the nature and amount of the income before the due date
of his or her own or his or her partner's return, the income
might not be eligible for community property treatment.
Generally, the laws of the state in which the members of
the registered domestic partnership are domiciled governs
whether the RDP has community income or separate income. Community property, generally, includes earned income, self-employment income from sole proprietorships,
interest, dividends, and rent. Gains and losses are classified as community or separate depending on how property
is held. Pensions are classified as community or separate
depending on the period of participation in the pension
during the registered domestic partnership and whether
domiciled in a community property state or in a noncom-

munity property state during the total period of participation in the pension. Distributions from individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs) are deemed as separate property.
Note. A partner in a registered domestic partnership cannot use the other partner's earnings in computing his or
her earned income for purposes of claiming the dependent care credit, the refundable portion of the child tax
credit, or the earned income credit.
Filing status. Generally, an RDP may only file as single
or as head of household (if the qualifying dependent is
someone other than the other RDP).
Deductions. Your deductions generally depend on
whether the expenses involve community or separate income.
Standard and itemized deductions. An RDP may
itemize or claim the standard deduction regardless of
whether his or her partner itemizes or claims the standard
deduction.
Business and investment expenses. Investment expenses for the production of income, deductible under
section 212 of the Internal Revenue Code, are suspended

Table 1. General Rules—Property and Income: Community or Separate?
Community property is property:
• That you, your spouse (or your RDP), or both acquire
during your marriage (or registered domestic partnership)
while you and your spouse (or your RDP) are domiciled in
a community property state (includes the part of property
bought with community property funds if part was bought
with community funds and part with separate funds);
• That you and your spouse (or your RDP) agreed to
convert from separate to community property; and
• That can't be identified as separate property.

Separate property is:
• Property that you or your spouse (or your RDP) owned
separately before your marriage (or registered domestic
partnership);
• Money earned while domiciled in a noncommunity
property state;
• Property either of you received as a gift or inherited
separately during your marriage (or registered domestic
partnership);
• Property bought with separate funds, or exchanged for
separate property, during your marriage (or registered
domestic partnership);
• Property that you and your spouse (or your RDP)
agreed to convert from community to separate property
through an agreement valid under state law; and
• The part of property bought with separate funds, if part
was bought with community funds and part with
separate funds.

Community income1,2,3 is income from:
• Community property;
• Salaries, wages, or pay for services of you, your spouse
(or your RDP), or both during your marriage (or registered
domestic partnership) while domiciled in a community
property state; and
• Real estate that is treated as community property under
the laws of the state where the property is located.

Separate income1,2 is income from:
• Separate property, which belongs to the spouse (or
RDP) who owns the property.

In Idaho, Louisiana, Texas, and Wisconsin, income from most separate property is community income.
Check your state law if you are separated but don't meet the conditions discussed under Spouses living apart all year, later. In some
states, the income you earn after you are separated and before a divorce decree is issued continues to be community income. In other
states, it is separate income.
3
Under special rules, income that can otherwise be characterized as community income may not be treated as community income for
federal income tax purposes in certain situations. See Community Property Laws Disregarded, later.
1
2

4

Publication 555 (12-2024)

until 2025. However, the suspension does not apply to
business expense deductions under section 162 of the
Code.
Expenses incurred to earn or produce community business or investment income are generally divided equally
between the partners in the registered domestic partnership. Each of the partners is generally entitled to deduct
one-half of the expenses on his or her separate return.
The expenses for separate business or investment income
are deductible by the RDP who earns the income.
IRA deduction. Deductions for IRA contributions can’t be
split between the RDPs. The deduction for each RDP is
figured separately without regard to community property
laws.
Personal expenses. Expenses that are paid out of separate funds, such as medical expenses, are deductible by
the RDP who pays for them. If these expenses are paid
from community funds, normally the deduction is divided
equally between the partners.
Federal income tax withheld. As a general rule, each
RDP is entitled to credit for half the income tax withheld
from wages that are community property.
For specific information that pertains to your situation,
check with the laws of your state.

Identifying Income,
Deductions, and Credits
If you file separate returns, you and your spouse (or your
RDP) each must attach your Form 8958 to your return to
identify your community and separate income, deductions, credits, and other return amounts according to the
laws of your state.
Under special rules, income that can otherwise be
characterized as community income may not be
CAUTION treated as community income for federal income
tax purposes in certain situations. See Community Property Laws Disregarded, later.

!

Check your state law if you are separated but
don't meet the conditions discussed in Spouses
CAUTION living apart all year, later. In some states, the income you earn after you are separated and before a divorce decree is issued continues to be community income. In other states, it is separate income.

!

Income
The following is a discussion of the general effect of community property laws on the federal income tax treatment
of certain items of income.
Wages, earnings, and profits. A spouse's (or an RDP's)
wages, earnings, and net profits from a sole proprietorship
are community income and must be evenly split.
Publication 555 (12-2024)

Dividends, interest, and rents. Dividends, interest, and
rents from community property are community income
and must be evenly split. Dividends, interest, and rents
from separate property are characterized in accordance
with the discussion under Income from separate property,
later.
If you and your spouse (or your RDP) buy a bond that is
considered community property under your state laws,
half the bond interest belongs to you and half belongs to
your spouse. You each must show the bond interest and
the split of that interest on your Form 8958, and report half
the interest on your return. Attach your Form 8958 to your
return.
Alimony received. Amounts paid as alimony or separate
maintenance under a divorce or separation instrument
executed after 2018 won’t be deductible by the payer.
Such amounts also won’t be includible in the income of
the recipient. The same is true of alimony paid under a divorce or separation instrument executed before 2019 and
modified after 2018, if the modification expressly states
that the alimony isn’t deductible to the payer or includible
in the income of the recipient. Alimony or separate maintenance payments made prior to divorce are taxable to the
payee spouse only to the extent they exceed 50% (his or
her share) of the reportable community income. This is so
because the payee spouse is already required to report
half of the community income. New rule—Alimony or separate maintenance paid under an instrument executed after December 31, 2018, is neither includible in the income
of the payee nor deductible from the income of the payor.
See also Payments not alimony, later.
Gains and losses. Gains and losses are classified as
separate or community depending on how the property is
held. For example, a loss on separate property, such as
stock held separately, is a separate loss. On the other
hand, a loss on community property, such as a casualty
loss to your home held as community property, is a community loss. See Pub. 544, Sales and Other Dispositions
of Assets, for information on gains and losses. See Pub.
547, Casualties, Disasters, and Thefts, for information on
losses due to a casualty or theft.
Withdrawals from IRAs and Coverdell education savings accounts (ESAs). There are several kinds of IRAs.
They are traditional IRAs (including SEP-IRAs), SIMPLE
IRAs, and Roth IRAs. IRAs and ESAs by law are deemed
to be separate property. Therefore, taxable IRA and ESA
distributions are separate property, even if the funds in the
account would otherwise be community property. These
distributions are wholly taxable to the spouse (or RDP)
whose name is on the account. That spouse (or RDP) is
also liable for any penalties and additional taxes on the
distributions.
Pensions. Generally, distributions from pensions will be
characterized as community or separate income depending on the respective periods of participation in the pension while married (or during the registered domestic partnership) and domiciled in a community property state or in
a noncommunity property state during the total period of
5

participation in the pension. See the example under Civil
service retirement, later. These rules may vary between
states. Check your state law.
Lump-sum distributions. If you were born before
January 2, 1936, and receive a lump-sum distribution from
a qualified retirement plan, you may be able to choose an
optional method of figuring the tax on the distribution. For
the 10-year tax option, you must disregard community
property laws. For more information, see Pub. 575, Pension and Annuity Income; and Form 4972, Tax on
Lump-Sum Distributions.
Civil service retirement. For income tax purposes,
community property laws apply to annuities payable under
the Civil Service Retirement Act (CSRS) or Federal Employee Retirement System (FERS).
Whether a civil service annuity is separate or community income depends on your marital status (or registered
domestic partnership) and domicile of the employee when
the services were performed for which the annuity is paid.
Even if you now live in a noncommunity property state and
you receive a civil service annuity, it may be community income if it is based on services you performed while married (or during the registered domestic partnership) and
domiciled in a community property state.
If a civil service annuity is a mixture of community income and separate income, it must be divided between
the two kinds of income. The division is based on the employee's domicile and marital status (or registered domestic partnership) in community and noncommunity property
states during his or her periods of service.
Example. Henry Wright retired this year after 30 years
of civil service. He and his spouse were domiciled in a
community property state during the past 15 years.
Because half the service was performed while the
Wrights were married and domiciled in a community property state, half the civil service retirement pay is considered to be community income. If Mr. Wright receives
$1,000 a month in retirement pay, $500 is considered
community income—half ($250) is his income and half
($250) is his spouse's.
Military retirement pay. State community property
laws apply to military retirement pay. Generally, the pay is
either separate or community income based on the marital
status and domicile of the couple while the member of the
Armed Forces was in active military service. For example,
military retirement pay for services performed during marriage and domicile in a community property state is community income.
Active military pay earned while married and domiciled
in a community property state is also community income.
This income is considered to be received half by the member of the Armed Forces and half by the spouse.
Partnership income. If an interest is held in a partnership, and income from the partnership is attributable to the
efforts of either spouse (or RDP), the partnership income
is community property. If it is a separate property partnership and the income from the partnership isn't attributable
to the efforts of either spouse (or RDP), the partnership in6

come will be characterized in accordance with the discussion under Income from separate property, later.
Tax-exempt income. For spouses, community income
exempt from federal tax generally keeps its exempt status
for both spouses. For example, under certain circumstances, income earned outside the United States is tax exempt. If you earned income and met the conditions that
made it exempt, the income is also exempt for your
spouse even though he or she may not have met the conditions. RDPs should consult the particular exclusion provision to see if the exempt status applies to both.
Income from separate property. In some states, income from separate property is separate income. These
states include Arizona, California, Nevada, New Mexico,
and Washington. Other states characterize income from
separate property as community income. These states include Idaho, Louisiana, Texas, and Wisconsin.

Deductions
If you file separate returns, your deductions generally depend on whether the expenses involve community or separate income.
Business and investment expenses. Investment expenses for the production of income, deductible under
section 212 of the Internal Revenue Code, are suspended
until 2025. However, the suspension does not apply to
business expense deductions under section 162 of the
Code.
If you file separate returns, expenses incurred to earn
or produce community business or investment income are
generally divided equally between you and your spouse
(or your RDP). Each of you is entitled to deduct one-half of
the expenses on your separate returns. Expenses incurred by a spouse (or RDP) to produce separate business or
investment income is deductible by the spouse (or the
RDP) who earns the corresponding separate business or
investment income.
Other limits may also apply to business and investment
expenses. For more information, see chapter 8 of Pub.
334, Tax Guide for Small Business; and Pub. 550, Investment Income and Expenses.
Payments not alimony. Prior to the enactment of the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) rules, payments that may otherwise qualify as alimony or separate maintenance aren’t
deductible by the payer if they are the recipient spouse’s
part of community income. See Example 1 below. Also
see Alimony received, earlier.
Example 1—pre-TCJA (old rule). You live in a community property state. You are separated but the special
rules explained later under Spouses living apart all year
don't apply. Under a court order of separation executed on
November 1, 2018, you pay your spouse as support
$12,000 of your $20,000 total yearly community income.
Your spouse receives no other community income. Under
your state law, earnings of a spouse living separately and

Publication 555 (12-2024)

apart from the other spouse continue as community property.
On your separate returns, each of you must report
$10,000 of the total community income. In addition, your
spouse must report $2,000 as alimony received. You can
deduct $2,000 as alimony paid.

ployment tax purposes the same way they do for income
tax purposes.
Sole proprietorship. With regard to net income from
a trade or business (other than a partnership) that is community income, self-employment tax is imposed on the
spouse carrying on the trade or business.

Example 2—TCJA (current rule). Assume the same
facts as in Example 1, but you pay your spouse pursuant
to a court order of separation executed after December
31, 2018. As in Example 1, each of you must report
$10,000 of the total community income. However, you
may not deduct $2,000 as alimony paid and your spouse
isn't required to report $2,000 as alimony received. For the
treatment of income after divorce, see End of the Community, later.

Partnerships. All of the distributive share of a married
partner's income or loss from a partnership trade or business is attributable to the partner for computing any
self-employment tax, even if a portion of the partner's distributive share of income or loss is community income or
loss that is otherwise attributable to the partner's spouse
for income tax purposes. If both spouses are partners, any
self-employment tax is allocated based on their distributive shares.

IRA deduction. Deductions for IRA contributions can't be
split between spouses (or RDPs). The deduction for each
spouse (or each RDP) is figured separately and without
regard to community property laws.

Federal income tax withheld. Report the credit for federal income tax withheld on community wages in the same
manner as your wages. If you and your spouse file separate returns on which each of you reports half the community wages, each of you is entitled to credit for half the
income tax withheld on those wages. Likewise, each RDP
is entitled to credit for half the income tax withheld on
those wages.

Personal expenses. Expenses that are paid out of separate funds, such as medical expenses, are deductible by
the spouse who pays them. If these expenses are paid
from community funds, divide the deduction equally between you and your spouse.

Credits, Taxes, and Payments
The following is a discussion of the general effect of community property laws on the treatment of certain credits,
taxes, and payments on your separate return.
Child tax credit. You may be entitled to a child tax credit
for each of your qualifying children. You must provide the
name and the social security number of each qualifying
child on your return. See your tax return instructions for
the maximum amount of the credit you can claim for each
qualifying child.
Limit on credit. The credit is limited if your modified
adjusted gross income (modified AGI) is above a certain
amount. The amount at which the limitation (phaseout) begins depends on your filing status. You may be entitled to
a credit for other dependents for each of your children who
is not a qualifying child for the child tax credit and for each
qualifying relative. See your tax return instructions for
more information.
Credit for other dependents. You may be entitled to a
credit for other dependents for each qualifying child who
isn’t a qualifying child for the child tax credit and for each
qualifying relative. For more information, see the instructions for your return.
Self-employment tax. For the effect of community property laws on the income tax treatment of income from a
sole proprietorship and partnerships, see Wages, earnings, and profits and Partnership income, earlier. The following rules only apply to married persons for federal tax
purposes. RDPs report community income for self-emPublication 555 (12-2024)

Estimated tax payments. In determining whether you
must pay estimated tax, apply the estimated tax rules to
your estimated income. These rules are explained in Pub.
505.
If you think you may owe estimated tax and want to pay
the tax separately (RDPs must pay the tax separately), determine whether you must pay it by taking into account:
1. Half the community income and deductions, and
2. All of your separate income and deductions.
Whether you and your spouse pay estimated tax jointly
or separately won't affect your choice of filing joint or separate income tax returns.
If you and your spouse paid estimated tax jointly but file
separate income tax returns, either of you can claim all of
the estimated tax paid, or you may divide it between you in
any way that you agree upon.
If you can't agree on how to divide it, the estimated tax
you can claim equals the total estimated tax paid times the
tax shown on your separate return, divided by the total of
the tax shown on your return and your spouse's return.
If you paid your estimated taxes separately, you get
credit for only the estimated taxes you paid.
Earned income credit (EIC). You may be entitled to an
EIC. You can't claim this credit if your filing status is married filing separately.
If you are married, but qualify to file as head of household under rules for married taxpayers living apart (see
Pub. 501, Dependents, Standard Deduction, and Filing Information), and live in a state that has community property
laws, your earned income for the EIC doesn't include any
amount earned by your spouse that is treated as belonging to you under community property laws. That amount
isn't earned income for the EIC, even though you must
7

include it in your gross income on your income tax return.
Your earned income includes the entire amount you
earned, even if part of it is treated as belonging to your
spouse under your state's community property laws. The
same rule applies to RDPs.
This rule doesn't apply when determining your adjusted gross income (AGI) for the EIC. Your AGI
CAUTION includes that part of both your and your spouse's
(or your RDP’s) wages that you are required to include in
the gross income shown on your tax return.

!

For more information about the EIC, see Pub. 596,
Earned Income Credit.
Overpayments. The amount of an overpayment on a
joint return is allocated under the community property laws
of the state in which you are domiciled.

• If, under the laws of your state, community property is

subject to premarital or other separate debts of either
spouse, the full joint overpayment may be used to offset the obligation.

• If, under the laws of your state, community property

isn't subject to premarital or other separate debts of either spouse, only the portion of the joint overpayment
allocated to the spouse liable for the obligation can be
used to offset that liability. The portion allocated to the
other spouse can be refunded.

Community Property Laws
Disregarded
The following discussions are situations where special
rules apply to community property and community income
for spouses. These rules don't apply to RDPs.
Certain community income not treated as community
income by one spouse. Community property laws may
not apply to an item of community income that you received but didn't treat as community income. You are responsible for reporting all of that income item if:
1. You treat the item as if only you are entitled to the income, and
2. You don't notify your spouse of the nature and amount
of the income by the due date for filing the return (including extensions).
Relief from liability for tax attributable to an item of
community income. You aren't responsible for the tax
relating to an omitted item of community income if all the
following conditions are met.
1. You didn't file a joint return for the tax year.
2. You didn't include the item of community income in
gross income.
3. The item of community income you didn't include in
your gross income is one of the following.

8

a. Wages, salaries, and other compensation your
spouse (or former spouse) received for services
he or she performed as an employee.
b. Income your spouse (or former spouse) derived
from a trade or business he or she operated as a
sole proprietor.
c. Your spouse's (or former spouse's) distributive
share of partnership income.
d. Income from your spouse's (or former spouse's)
separate property (other than income described in
(a), (b), or (c)). Use the appropriate community
property law to determine what is separate property.
e. Any other income that belongs to your spouse (or
former spouse) under community property law.
4. You establish that you didn't know of, and had no reason to know of, that community income.
5. Under all facts and circumstances, it wouldn't be fair
to include the item of community income in your gross
income.
Requesting relief. For information on how and when
to request relief from liabilities arising from community
property laws, see Community Property Laws in Pub. 971.
Equitable relief. If you don't qualify for the relief discussed earlier under Relief from liability for tax attributable
to an item of community income and are now liable for an
underpaid or understated tax you believe should be paid
only by your spouse (or former spouse), you may request
equitable relief. To request equitable relief, you must file
Form 8857. Also see Pub. 971.
Spousal agreements. In some states, a married couple
may enter into an agreement that affects the status of
property or income as community or separate property.
Check your state law to determine how it affects you.
Nonresident alien spouse. If you are a U.S. citizen or
resident alien and you choose to treat your nonresident
alien spouse as a U.S. resident for tax purposes and you
are domiciled in a community property state or country,
use the community property rules. You must file a joint return for the year you make the choice. You can file separate returns in later years. For details on making this
choice, see Pub. 519, U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens.
If you are a U.S. citizen or resident alien and don't
choose to treat your nonresident alien spouse as a U.S.
resident for tax purposes, treat your community income as
explained next under Spouses living apart all year. However, you don't have to meet the four conditions discussed
there.
Spouses living apart all year. If you are married at any
time during the calendar year, special rules apply for reporting certain community income. You must meet all the
following conditions for these special rules to apply.
1. You and your spouse lived apart all year.

Publication 555 (12-2024)

2. You and your spouse didn't file a joint return for a tax
year beginning or ending in the calendar year.
3. You and/or your spouse had earned income for the
calendar year that is community income.
4. You and your spouse haven't transferred, directly or
indirectly, any of the earned income in condition (3)
above between yourselves before the end of the year.
Don't take into account transfers satisfying child support obligations or transfers of very small amounts or
value.
If all these conditions are met, you and your spouse must
report your community income as discussed next. See
also Certain community income not treated as community
income by one spouse, earlier.
Earned income. Treat earned income that isn't trade
or business or partnership income as the income of the
spouse who performed the services to earn the income.
Earned income is wages, salaries, professional fees, and
other pay for personal services.
Earned income doesn't include amounts paid by a corporation that are a distribution of earnings and profits
rather than a reasonable allowance for personal services
rendered.
Trade or business income. Treat income and related
deductions from a trade or business that isn't a partnership as those of the spouse carrying on the trade or business.
Partnership income or loss. Treat income or loss
from a trade or business carried on by a partnership as the
income or loss of the spouse who is the partner.
Separate property income. Treat income from the
separate property of one spouse as the income of that
spouse.
Social security benefits. Treat social security and
equivalent railroad retirement benefits as the income of
the spouse who receives the benefits.
Other income. Treat all other community income,
such as dividends, interest, rents, royalties, or gains, as
provided under your state's community property law.
Example. George and Sharon were married throughout the year but didn't live together at any time during the
year. Both domiciles were in a community property state.
They didn't file a joint return or transfer any of their earned
income between themselves. During the year, their incomes were as follows.
George

Sharon

Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $20,000 $22,000
Consulting business . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5,000
Partnership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10,000
Dividends from separate property . . .
1,000
2,000
Interest from community property . . . .
500
500
Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Publication 555 (12-2024)

$26,500 $34,500

Under the community property law of their state, all the
income is considered community income. (Some states
treat income from separate property as separate income—check your state law.) Sharon didn't take part in
George's consulting business.
Ordinarily, on their separate returns, they would each
report $30,500, half the total community income of
$61,000 ($26,500 + $34,500). But because they meet the
four conditions listed earlier under Spouses living apart all
year, they must disregard community property law in reporting all their income (except the interest income) from
community property. They each report on their returns
only their own earnings and other income, and their share
of the interest income from community property. George
reports $26,500 and Sharon reports $34,500.
Other separated spouses. If you and your spouse are
separated but don't meet the four conditions discussed
earlier under Spouses living apart all year, you must treat
your income according to the laws of your state. In some
states, income earned after separation but before a decree of divorce continues to be community income. In
other states, it is separate income.

End of the Community
The marital community may end in several ways. When
the marital community ends, the community assets
(money and property) are divided between the spouses.
Similarly, a registered domestic partnership may end in
several ways and the community assets must be divided
between the RDPs.
Death of spouse. If you own community property and
your spouse dies, the total fair market value (FMV) of the
community property, including the part that belongs to
you, generally becomes the basis of the entire property.
For this rule to apply, at least half the value of the community property interest must be includible in your spouse's gross estate, whether or not the estate must file a return (this rule doesn't apply to RDPs).
Example. Taylor and Blake owned community property that had a basis of $80,000. When Taylor died, their
community property had an FMV of $100,000. One-half of
the FMV of their community interest was includible in Taylor's estate. The basis of Blake's half of the property is
$50,000 after Taylor died (half of the $100,000 FMV). The
basis of the other half to Taylor's heirs is also $50,000.
For more information about the basis of assets, see
Pub. 551, Basis of Assets.
Divorce or separation. If spouses divorce or separate,
the (equal or unequal) division of community property in
connection with the divorce or property settlement doesn't
result in a gain or loss. For RDPs, an unequal division of
community property in a property settlement may result in
a gain or loss. For information on the tax consequences of
the division of property under a property settlement or divorce decree, see Pub. 504.
9

Each spouse (or each RDP) is taxed on half the community income for the part of the year before the community ends. However, see Spouses living apart all year, earlier. Any income received after the community ends is
separate income. This separate income is taxable only to
the spouse (or the RDP) to whom it belongs.
An absolute decree of divorce or annulment ends
the marital community in all community property states. A
decree of annulment, even though it holds that no valid
marriage ever existed, usually doesn't nullify community
property rights arising during the “marriage.” However, you
should check your state law for exceptions.
A decree of legal separation or of separate maintenance may or may not end the marital community. The
court issuing the decree may terminate the marital community and divide the property between the spouses.
A separation agreement may divide the community
property between you and your spouse. It may provide
that this property, along with future earnings and property
acquired, will be separate property. This agreement may
end the community.
In some states, the marital community ends when the
spouses permanently separate, even if there is no formal
agreement. Check your state law.
If you are an RDP, you should check your state law to
determine when the community ends.

Preparing a Federal Income
Tax Return
The following discussion doesn't apply to spouses who
meet the conditions under Spouses living apart all year,
earlier. Those spouses must report their community income as explained in that discussion.

Joint Return Versus Separate Returns
Ordinarily, filing a joint return will give you a greater tax advantage than filing a separate return. But, in some cases,
your combined income tax on separate returns may be
less than it would be on a joint return.

!

This discussion concerning joint returns versus
separate returns doesn't apply to RDPs.

CAUTION

The following rules apply if your filing status is married
filing separately.
1. You should itemize deductions if your spouse itemizes
deductions, because you can't claim the standard deduction.
2. You can't take the credit for child and dependent care
expenses in most instances.
3. You can't take the EIC.
4. You can't exclude any interest income from qualified
U.S. savings bonds that you used for higher education
expenses.
10

5. You can't take the credit for the elderly or the disabled
unless you lived apart from your spouse all year.
6. You will likely have to include in income a greater percentage of any social security benefits or equivalent
railroad retirement benefits you received.
7. You can't deduct interest paid on a qualified student
loan.
8. You can't take the education credits.
9. You may have a smaller child tax credit and credit for
other dependents than you would on a joint return.
10. You can't take the exclusion or credit for adoption expenses in most instances.
Figure your tax both on a joint return and on sepa-

TIP rate returns under the community property laws of

your state. You can then compare the tax figured
under both methods and use the one that results in less
tax.

Separate Return Preparation
If you file separate returns, you and your spouse must
each report half of your combined community income and
deductions in addition to your separate income and deductions. Each of you must complete and attach Form
8958 to your return showing how you figured the amount
you are reporting on your return. On the appropriate lines
of your separate return, list only your share of the income
and deductions on the appropriate lines of your separate
tax returns (wages, interest, dividends, etc.). The same reporting rule applies to RDPs. For a discussion of the effect
of community property laws on certain items of income,
deductions, credits, and other return amounts, see Identifying Income, Deductions, and Credits, earlier.
Attach your Form 8958 to your separate return showing
how you figured the income, deductions, and federal income tax withheld that each of you reported. Form 8958 is
used for married spouses in community property states
who choose to file married filing separately. Form 8958 is
also used for RDPs who are domiciled in Nevada, Washington, or California. An RDP in Nevada, Washington, or
California must follow state community property laws and
report half the combined community income of the individual and his or her RDP.
Extension of time to file. An extension of time for filing
your separate return doesn't extend the time for filing your
spouse's (or your RDP’s) separate return. If you and your
spouse file a joint return, you can't file separate returns after the due date for filing either separate return has
passed.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
Publication 555 (12-2024)

forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

• Direct File. Direct File is a permanent option to file in-

dividual federal tax returns online—for free—directly
and securely with the IRS. Direct File is an option for
taxpayers in participating states who have relatively
simple tax returns reporting certain types of income
and claiming certain credits and deductions. While Direct File doesn't prepare state returns, if you live in a
participating state, Direct File guides you to a
state-supported tool you can use to prepare and file
your state tax return for free. Go to IRS.gov/DirectFile
for more information, program updates, and frequently
asked questions.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of
income.

Publication 555 (12-2024)

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• IRS.gov/DirectFile offers an Eligibility Checker to help
you determine if Direct File is the right choice for your
tax filing needs.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EIC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The First-Time Homebuyer Credit Account Look-up
(IRS.gov/HomeBuyer) tool provides information on
your repayments and account balance.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you're ultimately responsible for providing all the
CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax

!

11

matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille Ready File (BRF).

Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, or an S corporation, you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/BusinessAccount for
more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English,
Spanish, and ASL.

Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or, you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You'll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You'll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You'll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.

Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple's iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.

Online tax information in other languages. You can
find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t
your native language.

Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

Free Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The
IRS is committed to serving taxpayers with limited-English
proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI services. The OPI Service is a federally funded program and is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and
every VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI Service is accessible in more than 350 languages.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax

Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille, large print,
audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or
account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to

12

year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

• View your address on file or manage your communication preferences.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Publication 555 (12-2024)

Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EIC or the additional
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. Payments of U.S. tax must be
remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not

Publication 555 (12-2024)

accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how
to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay your individual tax bill or estimated
tax payment directly from your checking or savings account at no cost to you.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick, easy, and
faster than mailing in a check or money order.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/Form1040X
for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our sysCAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able use the
Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS

13

notices and letters by securely uploading required documents online through IRS.gov. For more information, go to
IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to
find the nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app,
under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

14

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS. Our services are free.

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn't working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

Publication 555 (12-2024)

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A

Alimony received 5
Annulment 10
Assistance (See Tax help)

B

Basis of property, death of
spouse 9
Business expenses 6

F

FERS annuities 6
Form 8958 3, 5, 10

G

Gains and losses 5

I

Income:
Civil service annuities 5
C
Dividends 5
Child tax credit 7
Gains and losses 5
Civil service annuities 6
Income from separate property 5
Community income defined 3
Interest 5
Community income, special rules 8
IRA distributions 5
Community property defined 3
Lump-sum distributions 5
Community property laws:
Military retirement pay 5
Generally 2
Partnership income 5
When disregarded 8
Pensions 5
Credit for other dependents 7
Rents 5
Credits:
Separate income 6
Child tax credit 7
Tax-exempt income 5
Earned income credit 7
Wages, earnings, and profits 5
CSRS annuities 6
Innocent spouse relief 8
Interest 5
D
Investment expenses 6
Death of spouse, basis of
IRA deduction 7
property 9
IRA distributions 5
Deductions:
Business expenses 6
J
Investment expenses 6
Joint return vs. separate returns 10
IRA deduction 6
Payments not alimony 6
L
Personal expenses 6
Lump-sum distributions 6
Dividends 5
Divorce 9
M
Domestic partners 2
Military retirement pay 6
Domicile 2
Missing children:
Photographs of, included in IRS
publications 1

E

Earned income credit 7
End of the marital community 9
Equitable relief 8
ESA withdrawals 5
Estimated tax payments 7
Exempt income 6
Extensions 10

Publication 555 (12-2024)

N

Nonresident alien spouse 8

O

P

Partnership income 6
Partnerships, self-employment
tax 7
Payments:
Estimated tax payments 7
Federal income tax withheld 7
Payments not alimony:
post-TCJA 6
pre-TCJA 6
Pensions 5
Personal expenses 7
Publications (See Tax help)

R

Registered domestic partners 2
Relief from liability for tax
attributable to an item of
community income 8
Rents 5

S

Self-employment tax:
Partnership 7
Sole proprietorship 7
Separate income defined 3
Separate property defined 3
Separate property income 6
Separate returns:
Extensions 10
Separate returns vs. joint return 10
Separated spouses 8
Separation agreement 10
Sole proprietorship,
self-employment tax 7
Spousal agreements 8
Spouses living apart 8

T

Tax help 10
Tax-exempt income 6

W

Wages, earnings, and profits 5
Withholding tax 7

Overpayments 8

15

