Future Developments
Publication 514

Foreign Tax
Credit for
Individuals
For use in preparing

2025 Returns

For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 514, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub514.

What’s New
New legislation. Recent legislation (P.L. 119-21) adds
new section 151(d)(5)(C), which generally provides a
$6,000 deduction for the taxpayer and (in the case of a
joint return) the taxpayer’s spouse, if they have reached
age 65 before the close of the tax year. This deduction is
reported on Schedule 1-A (Form 1040), line 37, and
needs to be removed from taxable income for purposes of
computing the foreign tax credit limitation. This deduction
is in effect for tax years 2025 through 2028. See the Instructions for Form 1116.
P.L. 119-21 also adds new section 960(d)(4), which disallows a credit under section 901 for 10% of any foreign income taxes paid or accrued (or deemed paid under section 960(b)(1)) with respect to any amount excluded from
gross income under section 959(a) by reason of an inclusion in gross income under section 951A(a). Section
960(d)(4) applies to foreign income taxes paid or accrued
(or deemed paid under section 960(b)(1)) with respect to
any amount excluded from gross income under section
959(a) by reason of an inclusion in gross income under
section 951A(a) after June 28, 2025.

Reminders
Final foreign tax credit regulations. Final foreign tax
credit regulations were published January 4, 2022. The
regulations made changes to the rules relating to the creditability of foreign taxes under Internal Revenue Code sections 901 and 903, the applicable period for claiming a
credit or deduction for foreign taxes, and the election to
claim a provisional credit for contested foreign taxes. A
Notice was subsequently released on July 21, 2023, allowing taxpayers to apply prior rules in place of certain
rules provided in the regulations. The rules described in
this Notice were modified in part by a Notice released on
December 11, 2023, to address their application to partnerships and their partners and to extend the relief period
until further notice. For more information, see Treasury Decision 9959, 2022-03 I.R.B. 328, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2022-03_IRB#TD-9959; Notice 2023-55, 2023-32 I.R.B.
427, available at IRS.gov/irb/2023-32_IRB#NOT-2023-55;
and Notice 2023-80, 2023-52 I.R.B. 1583, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2023-52_IRB#NOT-2023-80.

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Jan 30, 2026

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Schedule K-3. Beginning in 2021, certain information
that was previously reported on Schedule K-1 (Form
1065), Schedule K-1 (Form 1120-S), and Schedule K-1
(Form 8865) is now reported on Schedule K-3 (Form
1065), Schedule K-3 (Form 1120-S), and Schedule K-3
(Form 8865), respectively. Certain partnerships and S

Publication 514 (2025) Catalog Number 15018A
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

corporations are excepted from providing Schedule K-3 to
partners and shareholders that might otherwise benefit
from Schedule K-3 information in claiming a foreign tax
credit. However, you have the right to request the Schedule K-3 from the partnership or S corporation to obtain this
information. See the partnership and S corporation instructions for Schedules K-2 and K-3 (Form 1065 or
1120-S) and the partner and shareholder instructions for
Schedule K-3 (Form 1065 or 1120-S), available at
IRS.gov/Form1065 and IRS.gov/Form1120S, respectively,
for further information.
Alternative minimum tax. In addition to your regular income tax, you may be liable for the alternative minimum
tax. A foreign tax credit may be allowed in figuring this tax.
See the Instructions for Form 6251 for a discussion of the
alternative minimum tax foreign tax credit.
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
If you paid or accrued income taxes to a foreign country
on foreign source income and are subject to U.S. tax on
your foreign source income, you may be able to take either
a credit or an itemized deduction for those taxes. Taken as
a deduction, foreign income taxes reduce your U.S. taxable income. Taken as a credit, foreign income taxes reduce your U.S. tax liability.
In most cases, it is to your advantage to take foreign income taxes as a tax credit. The major scope of this publication is the foreign tax credit.
This publication discusses:

• How to choose to take the credit or the deduction,
• Who can take the credit,
• What foreign taxes qualify for the credit,
• How to figure the credit, and
• How to carry over unused foreign taxes to other tax
years.

Unless you qualify for exemption from the foreign tax
credit limit, you claim the credit by filing Form 1116 with
your U.S. income tax return.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
2

consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
54

Tax Guide for U.S. Citizens and Resident Aliens
Abroad

54

519 U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens
519

570 Tax Guide for Individuals With Income From
U.S. Territories
570

Form (and Instructions)
1116 Foreign Tax Credit
1116

Schedule B (Form 1116) Foreign Tax Carryover
Reconciliation Schedule
Schedule B (Form 1116)

Schedule C (Form 1116) Foreign Tax
Redeterminations
Schedule C (Form 1116)

Form 7204 Consent To Extend the Time To Assess
Tax Related to Contested Foreign Income
Taxes—Provisional Foreign Tax Credit
Agreement
Form 7204

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for
additional information.

Choosing To Take Credit or
Deduction
You can choose whether to take the amount of any qualified foreign taxes paid or accrued during the year as a foreign tax credit or as an itemized deduction. You can
change your choice for each year’s taxes.
To choose the foreign tax credit, in most cases, you
must complete Form 1116 and attach it to your U.S. tax
Publication 514 (2025)

return. However, you may qualify for the exception that allows you to claim the foreign tax credit without using Form
1116. See How To Figure the Credit, later. To claim the
taxes as an itemized deduction, use Schedule A (Form
1040).
Tip: Figure your tax both ways—claiming the credit and
claiming the deduction. Then, fill out your return the way
that benefits you more. See Why Choose the Credit, later.

Choice Applies to All Qualified
Foreign Taxes

• You participated in or cooperated with an international
boycott.

• You paid taxes in connection with the purchase or sale
of oil or gas.

• You paid or accrued taxes on income or gain in con-

nection with a covered asset acquisition. Covered asset acquisitions include certain acquisitions that result
in a stepped-up basis for U.S. tax purposes. For more
information, see Internal Revenue Code section
901(m) and the regulations under that section, including Treasury Decision 9895, 2020-15 I.R.B. 565, available at IRS.gov/irb/2020-15_IRB#TD-9895.

As a general rule, you must choose each year to take either a credit or a deduction for all qualified foreign taxes
paid or accrued in that year.

For more information on these items, see Taxes for
Which You Can Only Take an Itemized Deduction, later,
under Foreign Taxes for Which You Cannot Take a Credit.

If you choose to take a credit for any qualified foreign
taxes in a year, you must take the credit for all qualified foreign taxes paid or accrued in that year. You cannot deduct
any of them. Conversely, if you choose to deduct qualified
foreign taxes, you must deduct all of them. You cannot
take a credit for any of them.

Foreign taxes that are not income taxes. In most cases, only foreign income taxes qualify for the foreign tax
credit. Other taxes, such as foreign real and personal
property taxes, do not qualify. But you may be able to deduct these other taxes even if you claim the foreign tax
credit for foreign income taxes if they are expenses incurred in a trade or business or in the production of income.

See What Foreign Taxes Qualify for the Credit, later, for
the meaning of “qualified foreign taxes.”
There are exceptions to this general rule, which are described next.
Exception for taxes that relate to a prior year in
which you deducted foreign income taxes. If you are
an accrual-basis taxpayer (or you elected to claim your
foreign tax credit on an accrual basis, see Credit for Taxes
Paid or Accrued, later) that has chosen to claim a credit
for foreign taxes this year, and you paid additional qualified foreign tax this year that relates to a prior year in
which you chose to deduct foreign taxes, then you may
claim a deduction for the additional tax paid (you may not
claim a credit for such taxes). See Regulations section
1.901-1(c)(3).
Exceptions for foreign taxes not allowed as a credit.
Even if you claim a credit for other foreign taxes, you can
deduct any foreign tax that is not allowed as a credit if you
did any of the following.

• You paid the tax to a country for which a credit is not

allowed because it provides support for acts of international terrorism, or because the United States does
not have or does not conduct diplomatic relations with
it or recognize its government and that government is
not otherwise eligible to purchase defense articles or
services under the Arms Export Control Act.

• You paid withholding tax on dividends from foreign

corporations whose stock you did not hold for the required period of time.

• You paid withholding tax on income or gain (other than
dividends) from property you did not hold for the required period of time.

• You paid withholding tax on income or gain to the ex-

tent you had to make related payments on positions in
substantially similar or related property.

Publication 514 (2025)

Caution: Final foreign tax credit regulations issued on
January 4, 2022, revised the creditability requirements under Regulations sections 1.901-2 and 1.903-1, applicable
for foreign taxes paid or accrued in tax years beginning on
or after December 28, 2021. A Notice was subsequently
released on July 21, 2023, allowing taxpayers to apply
prior rules in place of certain rules provided in the regulations. The rules described in this Notice were modified in
part by a Notice released on December 11, 2023, to address their application to partnerships and their partners
and to extend the relief period until further notice. For
more information, see Treasury Decision 9959, 2022-03
I.R.B.
328,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2022-03_IRB#TD-9959; Notice 2023-55, 2023-32 I.R.B.
427, available at IRS.gov/irb/2023-32_IRB#NOT-2023-55;
and Notice 2023-80, 2023-52 I.R.B. 1583, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2023-52_IRB#NOT-2023-80.
Carrybacks and carryovers. There is a limit on the
credit you can claim in a tax year. If your qualified foreign
taxes exceed the credit limit, you may be able to carry
over or carry back the excess to another tax year. If you
deduct qualified foreign taxes in a tax year, you cannot
take a credit for qualified foreign taxes that are carried
back or carried over to that tax year from another tax year.
That is because you cannot take both a deduction and a
credit for qualified foreign taxes in the same tax year.
For more information on the limit, see How To Figure
the Credit, later. For more information on carrybacks and
carryovers, see Carryback and Carryover, later.

Making or Changing Your Choice
You can choose to claim a credit or to change from claiming a deduction to claiming a credit at any time during the
period within 10 years from the regular due date for filing
3

the return (without regard to any extension of time to file)
for the tax year in which the taxes were actually paid or accrued. You can also choose to claim a deduction or to
change from claiming a credit to claiming a deduction at
any time during the period within 3 years from the time you
filed the return or 2 years from when you paid the tax,
whichever is later. This 10-year or 3-year (or 2-year) period may be extended by an agreement. You make or
change your choice on your tax return (or on an amended
return) for the year your choice is to be effective.
Example. You paid foreign taxes for the last 13 years
and chose to deduct them on your U.S. income tax returns. In February 2025, you file an amended return for tax
year 2014, choosing to take a credit for your 2014 foreign
taxes because you now realize that the credit is more advantageous than the deduction for that year. This choice is
timely because it was made within 10 years of the unextended due date of your tax return for 2014.
Because there is a limit on the credit for your 2014 foreign tax, you have unused 2014 foreign taxes. Ordinarily,
you first carry back unused foreign taxes arising in 2014
to, and claim them as a credit in, the preceding tax year. If
you are unable to claim all of them in that year, you carry
them forward to the 10 years following the year in which
they arose.
Because you originally chose to deduct your foreign
taxes and the 10-year period for changing the choice for
2013 has passed, you cannot change your choice and
carry the unused 2014 foreign taxes back to tax year
2013.
Because the 10-year period for changing the choice
has not passed for your 2015 through 2024 income tax returns, you can still choose to claim the credit for those
years and carry forward any unused 2014 foreign taxes.
However, you must reduce the unused 2014 foreign taxes
that you carry forward by the amount that would have
been allowed as a carryback if you had timely carried
back the foreign tax to tax year 2013.
Caution: You cannot take a credit or a deduction for foreign taxes paid on income you exclude under the foreign
earned income exclusion or the foreign housing exclusion.
See Foreign Earned Income and Housing Exclusions under Foreign Taxes for Which You Cannot Take a Credit,
later.

Why Choose the Credit?
The foreign tax credit is intended to relieve you of a double
tax burden when your foreign source income is taxed by
both the United States and the foreign country. In most cases, if the foreign tax rate is higher than the U.S. rate,
there will be no U.S. tax on the foreign income. If the foreign tax rate is lower than the U.S. rate, U.S. tax on the foreign income will be limited to the difference between the
rates. The foreign tax credit can only reduce U.S. taxes on
foreign source income; it cannot reduce U.S. taxes on U.S.
source income.

4

Although no one rule covers all situations, in most cases, it is better to take a credit for qualified foreign taxes
than to deduct them as an itemized deduction. The following bullets explain why the credit may provide a greater tax
benefit.

• A credit reduces your actual U.S. income tax on a dollar-for-dollar basis, while a deduction reduces only
your income subject to tax.

• You can choose to take the foreign tax credit even if

you do not itemize your deductions. You are then allowed the standard deduction in addition to the credit.

• If you choose to take the foreign tax credit, and the

taxes paid or accrued exceed the credit limit for the tax
year, you may be able to carry over or carry back the
excess to another tax year. (See Limit on the Credit
under How To Figure the Credit, later.)

Example 1. For 2025, you and your spouse have adjusted gross income of $130,000, including $20,000 of
dividend income from foreign sources. None of the dividends are qualified dividends. You file a joint return. You
had to pay $1,900 in foreign income taxes on the dividend
income. If you take the foreign taxes as an itemized deduction, your total itemized deductions are $42,000. Your
taxable income then is $88,000 and your tax is $10,086.
If you take the credit instead, your itemized deductions
are only $40,100. Your taxable income then is $89,900
and your tax before the credit is $10,314. After the credit,
however, your tax is only $8,414. Therefore, your tax is
$1,672 lower ($10,086 − $8,414) by taking the credit.
Example 2. In 2025, you receive investment income of
$5,000 from a foreign country, which imposes a tax of
$1,500 on that income. You report on your U.S. return this
income as well as $56,000 of U.S. source wages and an
allowable $40,000 partnership loss from a U.S. partnership. Your share of the partnership’s gross income is
$25,000 and your share of its expenses is $65,000. You
are single and have other itemized deductions of $15,850.
If you deduct the foreign tax on your U.S. return, your taxable income is $3,650 ($5,000 + $56,000 − $40,000 −
$1,500 − $15,850) and your tax is $368.
If you take the credit instead, your taxable income is
$5,150 ($5,000 + $56,000 − $40,000 − $15,850) and your
tax before the credit is $518. You can take a credit of only
$410 because of limits discussed under Limit on the
Credit, later. Your tax after the credit is $108 ($518 −
$410), which is $260 ($368 – $108) less than if you deduct
the foreign tax.
If you choose the credit, you will have unused foreign
taxes of $1,090 ($1,500 − $410). When deciding whether
to take the credit or the deduction, you should also consider whether you can benefit from a carryback or carryover of that unused foreign tax.

Credit for Taxes Paid or Accrued
You can claim the credit for a qualified foreign tax in the
tax year in which you pay it or accrue it, depending on
your method of accounting. “Tax year” refers to the tax
Publication 514 (2025)

year for which your U.S. return is filed, not the tax year for
which your foreign return is filed.

year on both last year’s taxes that you paid and this year’s
taxes that you accrued.

Accrual method of accounting. If you use an accrual
method of accounting, you can claim the credit only in the
year in which you accrue the tax. You are using an accrual
method of accounting if you report income when you earn
it, rather than when you receive it, and you deduct your expenses when you incur them, rather than when you pay
them.
In most cases, foreign taxes accrue when all the events
have taken place that fix the amount of the tax and your liability to pay it. Generally, this occurs on the last day of the
foreign tax year for which your foreign return is filed.

Contesting your foreign tax liability. In general, you
cannot claim a credit for a contested foreign income tax liability until the contest is resolved and the amount of the
liability is finally determined.
If you use the cash method of accounting, you cannot
claim a credit for any portion of a tax liability you are contesting, even if you paid any portion of the liability to the
foreign country. You can claim a credit once the contest is
resolved and your foreign tax liability is determined. The
tax is considered paid in the tax year in which the payment
was made. See Regulations section 1.905-1(c)(2). Alternatively, you may elect to claim a provisional credit for
contested taxes, as discussed later.
If you chose to take the credit in the year the foreign
taxes accrue, you cannot claim a credit for any portion of a
tax liability you are contesting, even if you paid any portion
of the liability to the foreign country. You can claim a credit
once the contest is resolved and your foreign tax liability is
determined and paid. The tax is considered to accrue in
the foreign tax year to which the contested tax liability is
related (“relation-back year”). See Regulations section
1.905-1(d)(3). Alternatively, you can elect to claim a provisional credit for contested taxes. See the next paragraph
for details.

You may have to post a bond. If you claim a credit
for taxes accrued but not paid, you may have to post an income tax bond to guarantee your payment of any tax due
in the event the amount of foreign tax paid differs from the
amount claimed.
The IRS can request this bond at any time without regard to the time limit on tax assessment, discussed later
under Carryback and Carryover.
Cash method of accounting. If you use the cash
method of accounting, you can claim the credit only in the
year in which you pay the tax. You are using the cash
method of accounting if you report income in the year you
actually or constructively receive it, and deduct expenses
in the year you pay them. You can choose to take the
credit in the year you accrue it. See Choosing to take
credit in the year taxes accrue next.
Choosing to take credit in the year taxes accrue.
Even if you use the cash method of accounting, you can
choose to take a credit for foreign taxes in the year they
accrue. You make the choice by checking the “Accrued”
box in Part II of Form 1116 on a timely filed original return.
You cannot make this choice on an amended return. Once
you make that choice, you must follow it in all later years
and take a credit for foreign taxes in the year they accrue.
In addition, the choice to take the credit when foreign
taxes accrue applies to all foreign taxes qualifying for the
credit. You cannot take a credit for some foreign taxes
when paid and take a credit for others when accrued.
If you make the choice to take the credit when foreign
taxes accrue and pay them in a later year, you cannot
claim a deduction for any part of the previously accrued
taxes.
Credit based on taxes paid in earlier year. If, in earlier years, you took the credit based on taxes paid, and
this year you choose to take the credit based on taxes accrued, you may be able to take the credit this year for
taxes from more than 1 year. See Regulations section
1.905-1(e)(3).
Example. Last year, you took the credit based on
taxes paid. This year, you chose to take the credit based
on taxes accrued. During the year, you paid foreign income taxes owed for last year. You also accrued foreign
income taxes for this year that you did not pay by the end
of the year. You can base the credit on your return for this
Publication 514 (2025)

Election to claim a provisional credit for contested
taxes. If you use the cash method of accounting, you may
elect to take a provisional credit for any portion of a contested foreign income tax liability that you have paid to the
foreign country in the year that you pay the tax. If you are
an accrual-basis taxpayer or if you elected to claim your
foreign tax credit on an accrual basis, you may elect to
take a credit for any portion of a contested foreign income
tax liability that you have paid to the foreign country in the
relation-back year. To make the election, you must file
Form 7204 with your return. In addition, for each subsequent tax year up to and including the tax year in which
the contest is resolved, you must annually file Schedule C
(Form 1116). If you receive from the foreign country a refund of any portion of the tax liability you contested and
paid, you may have to adjust your credit, as discussed
later under Foreign Tax Redetermination.

Foreign Currency and Exchange
Rates
U.S. income tax is imposed on income expressed in U.S.
dollars, while in most cases, the foreign tax is imposed on
income expressed in foreign currency. Therefore, fluctuations in the value of the foreign currency relative to the
U.S. dollar may affect the foreign tax credit.
Translating foreign currency into U.S. dollars. If you
receive all or part of your income or pay some or all of your
expenses in foreign currency, you must translate the foreign currency into U.S. dollars. How and when you do this
depends on your functional currency. In most cases, your

5

functional currency is the U.S. dollar unless you are required to use the currency of a foreign country.
You must make all federal income tax determinations in
your functional currency. The U.S. dollar is the functional
currency for all taxpayers except some qualified business
units (QBUs). A QBU is a separate and clearly identified
unit of a trade or business that maintains separate books
and records. Unless you are self-employed, your functional currency is the U.S. dollar.
Even if you are self-employed and have a QBU, your
functional currency is the U.S. dollar if any of the following
apply.

• You conduct the business primarily in dollars.
• The principal place of business is located in the United States.

• You choose to or are required to use the dollar as your
functional currency.

• The business books and records are not kept in the

currency of the economic environment in which a significant part of the business activities are conducted.

If your functional currency is the U.S. dollar, you must
immediately translate into dollars all items of income, expense, etc., that you receive, pay, or accrue in a foreign
currency and that will affect computation of your income
tax. If there is more than one exchange rate, use the one
that most properly reflects your income. In most cases,
you can get exchange rates from banks and U.S. embassies.
If your functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, make
all income tax determinations in your functional currency.
At the end of the year, translate the results, such as income or loss, into U.S. dollars to report on your income
tax return.
For more information, write to:
Internal Revenue Service
International Section
Philadelphia, PA 19255-0725
Rate of exchange for foreign taxes paid. Use the rate
of exchange in effect on the date you paid the foreign
taxes to the foreign country unless you meet the exception
discussed next. If your tax was withheld in foreign currency, use the rate of exchange in effect for the date on
which the tax was withheld. If you make foreign estimated
tax payments, you use the rate of exchange in effect for
the date on which you made the estimated tax payment.
The exchange rate rules discussed here apply even if
the foreign taxes are paid or accrued with respect to a foreign tax credit splitting event (discussed later).
Exception. If you claim the credit for foreign taxes on
an accrual basis, in most cases, you must use the average
exchange rate for the tax year to which the taxes relate.
This rule applies to accrued taxes only under the following
conditions.
1. The foreign taxes are paid on or after the first day of
the tax year to which they relate.

6

2. The foreign taxes are paid not later than 24 months after the close of the tax year to which they relate.
3. The foreign tax liability is not denominated in an inflationary currency (defined in the Form 1116 instructions).
For all other foreign taxes, you should use the exchange rate in effect on the date you paid them.
Election to use exchange rate on date paid. If you
have accrued foreign taxes that you are otherwise required to convert using the average exchange rate, you
may elect to use the exchange rate in effect on the date
the foreign taxes are paid if the taxes are denominated in
a nonfunctional foreign currency. If any of the accrued
taxes are unpaid, you must translate them into U.S. dollars
using the exchange rate on the last day of the U.S. tax
year to which those taxes relate. You may make the election for all nonfunctional currency foreign income taxes or
only those nonfunctional currency foreign income taxes
that are attributable to QBUs with a U.S. dollar functional
currency. Once made, the election applies to the tax year
for which made and all subsequent tax years unless revoked with the consent of the IRS. It must be made by the
due date (including extensions) for filing the tax return for
the first tax year to which the election applies. Make the
election by attaching a statement to the applicable tax return. The statement must identify whether the election is
made for all foreign taxes or only for foreign taxes attributable to QBUs with a U.S. dollar functional currency.

Foreign Tax Redetermination
A foreign tax redetermination is a change in your foreign
tax liability, and certain other changes that may affect your
U.S. income tax liability, including by reason of a change in
the amount of your foreign tax credit claimed. See Regulations section 1.905-3(a) for more information.
If a foreign tax redetermination occurs, a redetermination of your U.S. tax liability is required if any of the following conditions apply.
1. The accrued taxes, when paid, differ from the
amounts claimed as a credit.
2. The accrued taxes you claimed as a credit in a tax
year are not paid within 24 months after the end of
that tax year.
If this applies to you, you must reduce the credit
previously claimed by the amount of the unpaid taxes.
You will not be allowed a credit for the unpaid taxes
until you pay them. When you pay the accrued taxes,
a new foreign tax redetermination occurs and you
must translate the taxes into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate as of the date they were paid. The foreign
tax credit is allowed for the year to which the foreign
tax relates. See Rate of exchange for foreign taxes
paid, earlier, under Foreign Currency and Exchange
Rates.
3. The foreign taxes you paid are refunded in whole or in
part.
Publication 514 (2025)

4. You change your election and claim a credit for foreign
income taxes that you previously deducted, or you
change your election and claim a deduction for foreign income taxes that you previously credited.
5. There is a change in foreign tax liability that affects the
amount of distributions or inclusions under section
951, 951A, or 1293, or affects the application of the
high-tax exception described in section 954(b)(4).
6. For taxes taken into account when accrued but translated into dollars on the date of payment, the dollar
value of the accrued tax differs from the dollar value of
the tax paid because of fluctuations in the exchange
rate between the date of accrual and the date of payment. However, no redetermination is required if the
change in foreign tax liability for each foreign country
is solely attributable to exchange rate fluctuations and
is less than the smaller of:
a. $10,000, or
b. 2% of the total dollar amount of the foreign tax initially accrued for that foreign country for the U.S.
tax year.
In this case, you must adjust your U.S. tax in the tax
year in which the accrued foreign taxes are paid.
Generally, you must take into account foreign tax redeterminations in the tax year to which the tax relates.
Note: If you use the cash method of accounting and
choose to take credits for taxes in the year they are paid
(see Credit for Taxes Paid or Accrued, earlier), and you
pay additional foreign income taxes that relate to a prior
tax year, that is not a foreign tax redetermination. You report those additional foreign income taxes in the tax year
in which you paid the additional taxes.

Notice to the IRS of Redetermination
Change in U.S. tax liability. If any of the above foreign
tax redeterminations occur after you file your tax return,
and the foreign tax redeterminations change the amount
of U.S. tax due for any tax year, you must generally file
Form 1040-X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, or other amended return, to notify the IRS so that
your U.S. tax for the year or years affected can be redetermined. Complete and attach to Form 1040-X (or other
amended return) a revised Form 1116 for the tax year(s)
affected and a statement that contains information sufficient for the IRS to redetermine your U.S. tax liability. See
Contents of statement, later. In some cases, you may not
have to file Form 1040-X or attach Form 1116.
In addition to filing an amended return with Form 1116
and attached statement for your tax year(s) for which your
U.S. tax liability is changed as a result of the foreign tax redetermination, you must file Schedule C (Form 1116) with
your current-year tax return summarizing the foreign tax
redeterminations that occurred in the current year that relate to prior tax years. You must file Schedule C (Form
1116) for each applicable separate category of income.
Publication 514 (2025)

No change in U.S. tax liability. If a foreign tax redetermination doesn’t change the amount of U.S. tax due for
any tax year including in instances where the additional
U.S. tax due by reason of the redetermination is eliminated by a carryback or carryover of an unused foreign tax,
you don’t need to file an amended return and may instead
notify the IRS of the redetermination by attaching for each
applicable separate category of income a completed
Schedule C (Form 1116) to the original return for your tax
year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurs. See
the Instructions for Schedule C (Form 1116) for additional
information.
You are not required to attach Form 1116 for a tax year
affected by a redetermination if you meet both of the following criteria.
1. The amount of your creditable taxes paid or accrued
during the tax year is not more than $300 ($600 if
married filing a joint return) as a result of the foreign
tax redetermination.
2. You meet the requirements listed under Exemption
from foreign tax credit limit under How To Figure the
Credit, later.
There are other exceptions to this requirement. They
are discussed later under Due date of notification to IRS.
Contents of statement. The statement must include all
of the following.

• Your name, address, and taxpayer identification number.

• The tax year or years that are affected by the foreign
tax redetermination.

• The date or dates the foreign taxes were accrued, if
applicable.

• The date or dates the foreign taxes were paid.
• The amount of foreign taxes paid or accrued on each

date (in foreign currency) and the exchange rate used
to translate each amount.

• Information sufficient to determine any interest due

from or owing to you, including the amount of any interest paid to you by the foreign government, and the
dates received.

In the case of any foreign taxes that were not paid before the date 24 months after the close of the tax year to
which those taxes relate, you must provide the amount of
those taxes in foreign currency and the exchange rate that
was used to translate that amount when originally claimed
as a credit.
If any foreign tax was refunded in whole or in part, you
must provide the date and amount (in foreign currency) of
each refund, the exchange rate that was used to translate
each amount when originally claimed as a credit, and the
exchange rate for the date the refund was received (for
purposes of figuring foreign currency gain or loss under Internal Revenue Code section 988).

7

Due date of notification to IRS. If you pay less foreign
tax than you originally claimed a credit for, in most cases,
you must file a notification by the due date (with extensions) of your original return for your tax year in which the
foreign tax redetermination occurred. There is no limit on
the time the IRS has to redetermine and assess the correct U.S. tax due. If you pay more foreign tax than you
originally claimed a credit for, you have 10 years to file a
claim for refund of U.S. taxes. See Time Limit on Refund
Claims, later.
Exceptions to this due date are explained in the next
two paragraphs.
Multiple redeterminations of U.S. tax liability for
same tax year. Where more than one foreign tax redetermination requires a redetermination of U.S. tax liability for
the same tax year and those redeterminations occur in the
same tax year or within 2 consecutive tax years, you can
file for that tax year one notification (Form 1040-X with a
Form 1116 and the required statement) that reflects all
those tax redeterminations. If you choose to file one notification for multiple redeterminations which, taken together,
increase your U.S. tax liability for the tax year, the due
date for that notification is the due date (with extensions)
for the year in which the first foreign tax redetermination
that increased your U.S. tax liability occurred. On the other
hand, if multiple redeterminations, taken together, decrease your U.S. tax liability for the tax year, the due date
for that notification is the applicable due date for filing a
claim for credit or refund for an overpayment of U.S. tax.
However, foreign tax redeterminations with respect to the
tax year for which a redetermination of U.S. tax liability is
required may occur after the due date for providing that
notification. In this situation, you may have to file more
than one Form 1040-X for that tax year.
Additional U.S. tax due eliminated by foreign tax
credit carryback or carryover. If a foreign tax redetermination requires a redetermination of U.S. tax liability that
would otherwise result in an additional amount of U.S. tax
due, but the additional tax is eliminated by a carryback or
carryover of an unused foreign tax, you do not have to
amend your tax return for the year affected by the redetermination. Instead, you can notify the IRS by attaching
Schedule C (Form 1116) to the original return for the tax
year in which the foreign tax redetermination occurred.
Failure-to-notify penalty. If you fail to notify the IRS of a
foreign tax redetermination and cannot show reasonable
cause for the failure, you may have to pay a penalty.
For each month, or part of a month, that the failure continues, you pay a penalty of 5% of the tax due resulting
from a redetermination of your U.S. tax. This penalty cannot be more than 25% of the tax due.
Foreign tax refund. If you receive a foreign tax refund
without interest from the foreign government, you will not
have to pay interest on the amount of tax due resulting
from the adjustment to your U.S. tax for the time before the
date of the refund.
However, if you receive a foreign tax refund with interest, you must pay interest to the IRS up to the amount of
8

the interest paid to you by the foreign government. The interest you must pay cannot be more than the interest you
would have had to pay on taxes that were unpaid for any
other reason for the same period. Interest is also owed
from the time you receive a refund until you pay the additional tax due.
Foreign tax imposed on foreign refund. If your foreign tax refund is taxed by the foreign country, you cannot
take a separate credit or deduction for this additional foreign tax. However, when you refigure the foreign tax credit
taken for the original foreign tax, reduce the amount of the
refund by the foreign tax paid on the refund.
Example. You paid a foreign income tax of $3,000 in
2023, and received a foreign tax refund of $500 in 2025 on
which a foreign tax of $100 was imposed. When you refigure your credit for 2023, you must reduce the $3,000 you
paid by $400.

Time Limit on Refund Claims
You have 10 years to file a claim for refund of U.S. tax if
you find that you paid or accrued a larger foreign tax than
you claimed a credit for. The 10-year period begins the
day after the regular due date for filing the return (without
extensions) for the year in which the taxes were actually
paid or accrued.
You have 10 years to file your claim regardless of
whether you claim the credit for taxes paid or taxes accrued. The 10-year period applies to claims for refund or
credit based on:
1. Fixing math errors in figuring qualified foreign taxes,
2. Reporting qualified foreign taxes not originally reported on the return, or
3. Any other change in the size of the credit (including
one caused by correcting the foreign tax credit limit).
The special 10-year period also applies to claiming a
credit or to changing from claiming a deduction to claiming
a credit for foreign taxes. See Making or Changing Your
Choice, earlier, under Choosing To Take Credit or Deduction.

Who Can Take the Credit?
U.S. citizens, resident aliens, and nonresident aliens who
paid foreign income tax and are subject to U.S. tax on foreign source income may be able to take a foreign tax
credit.

U.S. Citizens
If you are a U.S. citizen, you are taxed by the United
States on your worldwide income wherever you live. You
are normally entitled to take a credit for foreign taxes you
pay or accrue.
Publication 514 (2025)

Resident Aliens
If you are a resident alien of the United States, you can
take a credit for foreign taxes subject to the same general
rules as U.S. citizens. If you are a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico for the entire tax year, you also fall under the
same rules.
Usually, you can take a credit only for those foreign
taxes imposed on income you actually or constructively
received while you had resident alien status.
For information on alien status, see Pub. 519, U.S. Tax
Guide for Aliens.

Nonresident Aliens
If you are a nonresident alien, you cannot take the credit in
most cases. However, you may be able to take the credit if
you meet either of the following conditions.

• You were a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico during
your entire tax year.

• You pay or accrue tax to a foreign country or U.S. terri-

tory on income from foreign sources that is effectively
connected with a trade or business in the United
States. But if you must pay tax to a foreign country or
U.S. territory on income from U.S. sources only because you are a citizen or a resident of that country or
U.S. territory, do not use that tax in figuring the amount
of your credit.

For information on alien status and effectively connected
income, see Pub. 519.

What Foreign Taxes Qualify for
the Credit?
In most cases, the following four tests must be met for any
foreign tax to qualify for the credit.
1. The tax must be imposed on you.
2. You must have paid or accrued the tax.
3. The tax must be the legal and actual foreign tax liability.
4. The tax must be an income tax (or a tax in lieu of an
income tax).
Caution: Certain foreign taxes do not qualify for the credit
even if the four tests are met. See Foreign Taxes for Which
You Cannot Take a Credit, later.

Tax Must Be Imposed on You
You can claim a credit only for foreign taxes that are imposed on you by a foreign country or U.S. territory. For example, a tax that is deducted from your wages is considered to be imposed on you. You cannot shift the right to
claim the credit by contract or other means.
Publication 514 (2025)

Foreign country. A foreign country includes any foreign
state and its political subdivisions. Income, war profits,
and excess profits taxes paid or accrued to a foreign city
or province qualify for the foreign tax credit.
U.S. territories. For foreign tax credit purposes, all qualified taxes paid to U.S. territories are considered foreign
taxes. For this purpose, U.S. territories include Puerto
Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
When the term “foreign country” is used in this publication, it includes U.S. territories unless otherwise stated.

You Must Have Paid or Accrued the
Tax
In most cases, you can claim the credit only if you paid or
accrued the foreign tax to a foreign country or U.S. territory. However, the paragraphs that follow describe some
instances in which you can claim the credit even if you did
not directly pay or accrue the tax yourself.
Joint return. If you file a joint return, you can claim the
credit based on the total foreign income taxes paid or accrued by you and your spouse.
Combined income. If foreign tax is imposed on the combined income of two or more persons (for example, spouses), the tax is allocated among, and considered paid by,
these persons on a pro rata basis in proportion to each
person’s portion of the combined income, as determined
under foreign law and Regulations section 1.901-2(f)(3)
(iii). Combined income with respect to each foreign tax
that is imposed on a combined basis (and combined income subject to tax exemption or preferential tax rates) is
figured separately, and the tax on that combined income is
allocated separately.
Example. You and your spouse reside in Country X,
which imposes income tax on your combined incomes.
Both of you use the “u” as your functional currency. Country X apportions tax based on income. You had income of
30,000u and your spouse had income of 20,000u. Your filing status on your U.S. income tax return is married filing
separately. You can claim only 60% (30,000u/50,000u) of
the foreign taxes imposed on your income on your U.S income tax return. Your spouse can claim only 40%
(20,000u/50,000u).
Partner or S corporation shareholder. If you are a
partner in a partnership, or a shareholder in an S corporation, you can claim the credit based on your proportionate
share of the foreign income taxes paid or accrued by the
partnership or the S corporation. These amounts will be
shown on the Schedule K-3 you receive from the partnership or S corporation. However, if you are a partner in a
partnership or a shareholder in an S corporation that in
turn owns stock in a foreign corporation, you cannot claim
a credit for your share of foreign taxes paid by the foreign
corporation unless you make a section 962 election, discussed later under Controlled foreign corporation (CFC)
shareholder.
9

Beneficiary. If you are a beneficiary of an estate or trust,
you may be able to claim the credit based on your proportionate share of foreign income taxes paid or accrued by
the estate or trust. This amount will be shown on the
Schedule K-1 you receive from the estate or trust. However, you must show that the tax was imposed on income
of the estate and not on income received by the decedent.
Mutual fund shareholder. If you are a shareholder of a
mutual fund or other regulated investment company (RIC),
you may be able to claim the credit based on your share of
foreign income taxes paid by the fund if it chooses to pass
the credit on to its shareholders. You should receive from
the mutual fund or other RIC a Form 1099-DIV, or similar
statement, showing your share of the foreign income and
your share of the foreign taxes paid. If you do not receive
this information, you will need to contact the fund.
Controlled foreign corporation (CFC) shareholder. If
you are a shareholder of a CFC and elect under section
962 to be taxed at corporate rates on your section 951(a)
amount (which is generally your share of subpart F income and your section 956 amount with respect to investment of earnings in U.S. property), and your global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) inclusion for the tax year,
you may be able to claim a credit for certain foreign taxes
paid or accrued by the CFC, but only against your separately computed U.S. tax liability with respect to your section 951(a) amount and GILTI inclusion. To claim the
credit, you must file Forms 1118, as applicable, and you
must also include the statement required under Regulations section 1.962-2 to make the section 962 election.
You should include the following information for the tax
year in your statement.

• Your section 951(a) amount broken out between subpart F income and section 956 amount.

• Your GILTI inclusion.
• The amount of your deduction under section 250 with
respect to your GILTI inclusion (your section 250 deduction).

• The amount of the foreign tax credit taken on your

section 951(a) amount broken out between subpart F
income and section 956 amount, and your GILTI inclusion.

• The amount of your U.S. tax liability with respect to
amounts subject to section 962.

See Internal Revenue Code sections 951(a), 951A, 960,
and 962 and Regulations section 1.962-2 for more information.
Tip: If you are a shareholder in a CFC who has made a
section 962 election and you figured a foreign tax credit,
see the instructions for Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16.
Controlled foreign corporation (CFC). A CFC is a
foreign corporation in which U.S. shareholders directly, indirectly, or constructively own more than 50% of the voting
power or value of the stock. You are considered a U.S.
shareholder if you own, directly, indirectly, or constructively, 10% or more of the total voting power or value of all
10

classes of the foreign corporation’s stock. For tax years
beginning after 2017, the definition of U.S. shareholder is
expanded to include U.S. persons who own 10% or more
of the total value of shares of all classes of stock of such
foreign corporation. See Internal Revenue Code sections
951(b) and 958(b) for more information.

Tax Must Be the Legal and Actual
Foreign Tax Liability
The amount of foreign tax that qualifies is not necessarily
the amount of tax withheld by the foreign country. Only the
legal and actual foreign tax liability that you paid or accrued during the year qualifies for the credit.
Foreign tax refund and credits. You cannot take a foreign tax credit for income taxes paid to a foreign country if
it is reasonably certain the amount would be refunded,
credited, rebated, abated, or forgiven if you made a claim.
For example, the United States has tax treaties with
many countries allowing U.S. citizens and residents reductions in the rates of tax of those foreign countries. However, some treaty countries require U.S. citizens and residents to pay the tax figured without regard to the lower
treaty rates and then claim a refund for the amount by
which the tax actually paid is more than the amount of tax
figured using the lower treaty rate. The qualified foreign
tax is the amount figured using the lower treaty rate and
not the amount actually paid, because the excess tax is
refundable.
You cannot take a credit for taxes paid to a foreign
country that are reduced or offset by a tax credit. This includes foreign taxes offset or reduced by a tax credit that
is refundable to you in cash only if an excess credit remains after offsetting your foreign income tax liability as
well as a tax credit purchased from another taxpayer. See
Regulations section 1.901-2(e)(2)(ii). However, if the foreign income taxes are offset or reduced by a tax credit
that is fully refundable to you in cash at your option, without having to first offset your foreign income tax liability,
you can claim a foreign tax credit against your U.S. income tax for those foreign taxes. See Regulations section
1.901-2(e)(2)(iii).
Subsidy received. Tax payments a foreign country returns to you in the form of a subsidy do not qualify for the
foreign tax credit. This rule applies even if the subsidy is
given to a person related to you, or persons who participated with you in a transaction or a related transaction. A
subsidy can be provided by any means but must be determined, directly or indirectly, in relation to the amount of
tax, or to the base used to figure the tax.
The term “subsidy” includes any type of benefit. Some
ways of providing a subsidy are refunds, credits, deductions, payments, or discharges of obligations.
Shareholder receiving refund for corporate tax in integrated system. Under some foreign tax laws and treaties, a shareholder is considered to have paid part of the
tax that is imposed on the corporation. You may be able to
claim a refund of these taxes from the foreign government.
Publication 514 (2025)

You must include the refund (including any amount withheld) in your income in the year received. Any tax withheld
from the refund is a qualified foreign tax.
Example. You are a shareholder of a French corporation. You receive a $100 refund of the tax paid to France
by the corporation on the earnings distributed to you as a
dividend. The French government imposes a 15% withholding tax ($15) on the refund you received. You receive
a check for $85. You include $100 in your income. The
$15 of tax withheld is a qualified foreign tax.

Tax Must Be an Income Tax (or Tax in
Lieu of Income Tax)
In most cases, only income, war profits, and excess profits
taxes (income taxes) qualify for the foreign tax credit. Furthermore, foreign taxes on income can qualify even
though they are not imposed under an income tax law if
the tax is in lieu of an income, war profits, or excess profits
tax. See Taxes in Lieu of Income Taxes, later.
Simply because the levy is called an income tax by the
foreign taxing authority does not make it an income tax for
this purpose. A foreign levy is a foreign income tax only if it
meets both of the following requirements.
1. It is a tax; that is, you have to pay it and you get no
specific economic benefit (discussed below) from
paying it.
2. Either (a) the foreign tax is a net income tax that
meets the requirements of Regulations section
1.901-2(b), or (b) the foreign tax is a tax in lieu of an
income tax that meets the requirements of Regulations section 1.903-1.
Specific economic benefit. In most cases, you get a
specific economic benefit if you receive, or are considered
to receive, an economic benefit from the foreign country
imposing the levy, and:
1. If there is a generally imposed income tax, the economic benefit is not available on substantially the
same terms to all persons subject to the income tax;
or
2. If there is no generally imposed income tax, the economic benefit is not available on substantially the
same terms to the population of the foreign country in
general.
You are considered to receive a specific economic benefit if you have a business transaction with a person who
receives a specific economic benefit from the foreign
country and, under the terms and conditions of the transaction, you receive, directly or indirectly, all or part of the
benefit.
However, see the exception discussed later under Pension, unemployment, and disability fund payments.
Economic benefits. Economic benefits include the
following.

• Goods.
Publication 514 (2025)

• Services.
• Fees or other payments.
• Rights to use, acquire, or extract resources, patents,

or other property the foreign country owns or controls.

• Reductions or discharges of contractual obligations.
In most cases, the right or privilege merely to engage in
business is not an economic benefit.
Dual-capacity taxpayers. If you are subject to a foreign country’s levy and you also receive a specific economic benefit from that foreign country, you are a “dual-capacity taxpayer.” As a dual-capacity taxpayer, you cannot
claim a credit for any part of the foreign levy, unless you
establish that the amount paid under a distinct element of
the foreign levy is a tax, rather than a compulsory payment
for a direct or indirect specific economic benefit.
For more information on how to establish amounts paid
under separate elements of a levy, write to:
Internal Revenue Service
International Section
Philadelphia, PA 19255-0725
Pension, unemployment, and disability fund payments. A foreign tax imposed on an individual to pay for
retirement, old-age, death, survivor, unemployment, illness, or disability benefits, or for substantially similar purposes, is not payment for a specific economic benefit if
the amount of the tax does not depend on the age, life expectancy, or similar characteristics of that individual.
No deduction or credit is allowed, however, for social
security taxes paid or accrued to a foreign country with
which the United States has a social security agreement.
For more information about these agreements, see Pub.
54.
Net income tax. A foreign tax is a net income tax if it is
imposed on realized gross receipts reduced by costs and
expenses related to those gross receipts. In addition, the
foreign tax must meet the attribution requirement, described next. In order for the foreign tax to be a net income
tax, the foreign tax must generally allow for deduction of
significant costs and expenses, including capital expenditures, interest, rents, royalties, wages or other payments
for services, and research and experimentation. However,
the foreign tax does not need to allow deductions for costs
and expenses attributable to wage income or to investment income that is not derived from a trade or business.
For more information, see Regulations section 1.901-2(b)
(4).
Attribution requirement. A foreign tax must meet the
attribution requirement in Regulations section 1.901-2(b)
(5). For a tax that is imposed on nonresidents of a country,
the foreign tax must meet one of the following three requirements.
1. Activities nexus: The base of the foreign tax must be
determined based on gross receipts and costs that
are attributable to the activities (without using the location of customers as a criterion) of the nonresident.
11

2. Source-based nexus: For a tax that is imposed on the
basis of source, the foreign country’s source rules
must be reasonably similar to U.S. source rules.
3. Property situs nexus: For a tax imposed on gain from
the sale or disposition of property, the base of the tax
only includes gains from the sale or disposition of real
property located in the foreign country (or interest in a
resident entity that owns real property) or gain from
the sale or disposition of interest in a pass-through
entity that is attributable to business property forming
part of a taxable presence in the foreign country.
For a tax that is imposed on residents of the foreign
country, the rules for allocating income, deduction, and
losses between related parties must be consistent with
arm’s-length principles.

Taxes in Lieu of Income Taxes
A tax paid or accrued to a foreign country qualifies for the
credit if it is imposed in lieu of an income tax otherwise
generally imposed. A foreign levy is a tax in lieu of an income tax only if it meets both of the following requirements.

• It is not payment for a specific economic benefit, as
discussed earlier.

• The tax meets the attribution requirement and is imposed in place of, and not in addition to, a generally
imposed net income tax.

A tax in lieu of an income tax does not have to be
based on realized net income. A foreign tax imposed on
gross income, gross receipts or sales, or the number of
units produced or exported can qualify for the credit. However, the tax must meet the attribution requirement, described earlier. That means that a withholding tax imposed on
gross interest, dividends, royalties, or other gross income
of a nonresident is only creditable if the foreign country’s
source rule for those items of income is reasonably similar
to U.S. source rules.

Caution: Notice 2023-55, issued on July 21, 2023, provides temporary relief in determining whether a foreign tax
meets the definition of a foreign income tax under section
901. For foreign taxes paid or accrued during any tax year
within the relief period, taxpayers may apply former sections 1.901-2(a) and (b), before it was amended by Treasury Decision 9959, subject to a modification to the nonconfiscatory gross basis tax rule as described in the
Notice. Those former regulations do not include the attribution requirement described above. The rules described
in this Notice were modified in part by a Notice released
on December 11, 2023, to address their application to
partnerships and their partners and to extend the relief period until further notice. For more information, see Treasury Decision 9959, 2022-03 I.R.B. 328, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2022-03_IRB#TD-9959; Notice 2023-55,
2023-32
I.R.B.
427,
available
at
IRS.gov/irb/
2023-32_IRB#NOT-2023-55; and Notice 2023-80,
2023-52 I.R.B. 1583, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2023-52_IRB#NOT-2023-80.

In most cases, soak-up taxes (discussed earlier) do not
qualify as a tax in lieu of an income tax. However, if the
foreign country imposes a soak-up tax in lieu of an income
tax, the amount that does not qualify for foreign tax credit
is the lesser of the following amounts.

Soak-up taxes. An amount paid to a foreign country is
not an amount of foreign income tax paid and does not
qualify for the foreign tax credit to the extent it is a soak-up
tax. A tax is a soak-up tax to the extent that liability for it
depends on the availability of a credit for it against income
tax imposed by another country. This rule applies only if
and to the extent that the foreign tax would not be imposed if the credit were not available.

This part discusses the foreign taxes for which you cannot
take a credit. These are:

Penalties and interest. Amounts paid to a foreign government to satisfy a liability for interest, fines, penalties, or
any similar obligation are not taxes and do not qualify for
the credit.
Taxes not based on income. Foreign taxes based on
gross receipts or the number of units produced, rather
than on realized net income, do not qualify unless they are
imposed in lieu of an income tax, as discussed next.
Taxes based on assets, such as property taxes, do not
qualify for the credit.

• The soak-up tax.
• The foreign tax you paid that is more than the amount
you would have paid if you had been subject to the
generally imposed income tax.

Foreign Taxes for Which You
Cannot Take a Credit
• Taxes on excluded income,
• Taxes for which you can only take an itemized deduction,

• Taxes on foreign mineral income,
• Taxes from international boycott operations,
• A portion of taxes on combined foreign oil and gas income,

• Taxes of U.S. persons controlling foreign corporations
and partnerships who fail to file required information
returns,

• Taxes related to a foreign tax splitting event,
• Foreign taxes disallowed under section 965(g) and
Regulations section 1.965-5, and

• Foreign taxes disallowed under section 960(d)(4).

Section 960(d)(4) applies to foreign income taxes paid

12

Publication 514 (2025)

or accrued (or deemed paid under section 960(b)(1))
with respect to any amount excluded from gross income under section 959(a) by reason of an inclusion
in gross income under section 951A(a) after June 28,
2025.

Taxes on Excluded Income
You cannot take a credit for foreign taxes paid or accrued
on certain income that is excluded from U.S. gross income.

Foreign Earned Income and Housing
Exclusions
You must reduce your foreign taxes available for the credit
by the amount of those taxes paid or accrued on income
that is excluded from U.S. income under the foreign
earned income exclusion or the foreign housing exclusion.
See Pub. 54 for more information on the foreign earned income and housing exclusions.
Wages completely excluded. If your wages are completely excluded, you cannot take a credit for any of the
foreign taxes paid or accrued on these wages.
Wages partly excluded. If only part of your wages are
excluded, you cannot take a credit for the foreign income
taxes allocable to the excluded part. You find the amount
allocable to your excluded wages by multiplying the foreign tax paid or accrued on foreign earned income received or accrued during the tax year by a fraction.
The numerator of the fraction is your foreign earned income and housing amounts excluded under the foreign
earned income and housing exclusions for the tax year minus otherwise deductible expenses definitely related and
properly apportioned to that income. Deductible expenses
do not include the foreign housing deduction.
The denominator is your total foreign earned income received or accrued during the tax year minus all deductible
expenses allocable to that income (including the foreign
housing deduction). If the foreign law taxes foreign earned
income and some other income (for example, earned income from U.S. sources or a type of income not subject to
U.S. tax), and the taxes on the other income cannot be
segregated, the denominator of the fraction is the total
amount of income subject to the foreign tax minus deductible expenses allocable to that income.
Example. You are a U.S. citizen and a cash-basis taxpayer, employed by Company X and living in Country A.
Your records show the following.
Foreign earned income received . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$175,000

Unreimbursed business travel expenses . . . . . . . .

20,000

Income tax paid to Country A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

30,000

Exclusion of foreign earned
income and housing allowance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

130,000

Publication 514 (2025)

Because you can exclude part of your wages, you cannot claim a credit for part of the foreign taxes. To find that
part, do the following.
First, find the amount of business expenses allocable to
excluded wages and therefore not deductible. To do this,
multiply the otherwise deductible expenses by a fraction.
That fraction is the excluded wages over your foreign
earned income.
$20,000

×

$130,000
$175,000

=

$14,857

Next, find the numerator of the fraction by which you
will multiply the foreign taxes paid. To do this, subtract
business expenses allocable to excluded wages
($14,857) from excluded wages ($130,000). The result is
$115,143.
Then, find the denominator of the fraction by subtracting all your deductible expenses from all your foreign
earned income ($175,000 − $20,000 = $155,000).
Finally, multiply the foreign tax you paid by the resulting
fraction.
$30,000

×

$115,143
$155,000

=

$22,286

The amount of Country A tax you cannot take a credit for
is $22,286.

Taxes on Income From Puerto Rico Exempt
From U.S. Tax
If you have income from Puerto Rican sources that is not
taxable, you must reduce your foreign taxes paid or accrued by the taxes allocable to the exempt income. For information on figuring the reduction, see Pub. 570.

Territory Exclusion
If you are a bona fide resident of American Samoa and exclude income from sources in American Samoa, you cannot take a credit for the taxes you pay or accrue on the excluded income. For more information on this exclusion,
see Pub. 570.

Extraterritorial Income Exclusion
You cannot take a credit for taxes you pay on qualifying
foreign trade income excluded on Form 8873. However,
see Internal Revenue Code section 943(d) for an exception for certain withholding taxes.

Taxes for Which You Can Only Take an
Itemized Deduction
You cannot claim a foreign tax credit for foreign income
taxes paid or accrued under the following circumstances.
However, you can claim an itemized deduction for these
taxes. See Choosing To Take Credit or Deduction, earlier.

13

Taxes Imposed by Sanctioned Countries
(Section 901(j) Income)
You cannot claim a foreign tax credit for income taxes paid
or accrued to any country if the income giving rise to the
tax is for a period (the sanction period) during which:

• The Secretary of State has designated the country as
one that repeatedly provides support for acts of international terrorism;

Example. You lived and worked in Iran until August,
when you were transferred to Italy. You paid taxes to each
country on the income earned in that country. You cannot
claim a foreign tax credit for the foreign taxes paid on the
income earned in Iran. Because the income earned in Iran
is a separate category of foreign income, you must fill out
a separate Form 1116 for that income. You cannot take a
credit for taxes paid on the income earned in Iran, but that
income is taxable by the United States.

The following countries meet this description for 2025. Income taxes paid or accrued to these countries in 2025 do
not qualify for the credit.

Note: A foreign tax credit may be claimed for foreign
taxes paid or accrued with respect to section 901(j) income if such tax is paid or accrued to a country other than
a sanctioned country. For example, if a U.S. citizen resident in a nonsanctioned country pays a residence-based
income tax in that country on income derived from business activities in a sanctioned country, those foreign taxes
would be eligible for a foreign tax credit. In this situation,
you would continue completing Form 1116, and not stop
at line 17.

• Iran.
• Libya (but see Note, later).
• North Korea.
• Sudan.
• Syria.

Figuring the credit when a sanction ends. Table 1 lists
the countries for which sanctions have ended or for which
a Presidential waiver has been granted. For any of these
countries, you can claim a foreign tax credit for the taxes
paid or accrued to that country on the income for the period that begins after the end of the sanction period or the
date the Presidential waiver was granted.

Waiver of denial of the credit. A waiver can be granted
to a sanctioned country if the President of the United
States determines that granting the waiver is in the national interest of the United States and will expand trade
and investment opportunities for U.S. companies in the
sanctioned country. The President must report to Congress, not less than 30 days before the date on which the
waiver is granted, the intention to grant the waiver and the
reason for the waiver.

Example. The sanctions against Country X ended on
July 31. On August 19, you receive a distribution from a
mutual fund of Country X income. The fund paid Country
X income tax for you on the distribution. Because the distribution was made after the sanction ended, you may include the foreign tax paid on the distribution to figure your
foreign tax credit.

• The United States has severed or does not conduct
diplomatic relations with the country; or

• The United States does not recognize the country’s

government, and that government is not otherwise eligible to purchase defense articles or services under
the Arms Export Control Act.

Note: Effective December 10, 2004, the President granted a waiver to Libya. Income taxes arising on or after this
date qualify for the credit if they meet the other requirements in this publication.
Limit on credit. In figuring the foreign tax credit limit, discussed later, income from a sanctioned country is a separate category of foreign income unless a Presidential
waiver is granted. You must fill out a separate Form 1116
for this income and check box e at the top of the form. Because no credit is allowed for taxes paid to sanctioned
countries, you would generally complete Form 1116 for
this category only through line 17.

Amounts for the nonsanctioned period. If a sanction period ends (or a Presidential waiver is granted) during your tax year and you are not able to determine the actual income and taxes for that period, you can allocate
amounts to that period based on the number of days in the
period that fall in your tax year. Multiply the income or
taxes for the year by the following fraction to determine the
amounts allocable to that period.
Number of nonsanctioned days in year
Number of days in year

Example. You are a calendar-year filer and received
$20,000 of income from Country X in 2025 on which you
paid tax of $4,500. Sanctions against Country X ended on

Table 1. Countries Removed From the
Sanction List or Granted Presidential Waiver
Sanction period
Country

Starting date

Ending date

Cuba

January 1, 1987

December 21, 2015

Iraq

February 1, 1991

June 27, 2004

Libya

January 1, 1987

December 9, 2004*

* Presidential waiver granted for qualified income taxes arising after December 9, 2004.

14

Publication 514 (2025)

July 11, 2025. You are unable to determine how much of
the income or tax is for the nonsanctioned period. Because your tax year starts on January 1, and the Country
X sanction ended on July 11, 2025, 173 days of your tax
year are in the nonsanctioned period. You would figure the
income for the nonsanctioned period as follows.
173
365

×

$20,000

=

$9,479

You would figure the tax for the nonsanctioned period as
follows.
173
365

×

$4,500

=

$2,133

To figure your foreign tax credit, you would use $9,479 as
the income from Country X and $2,133 as the tax.
Further information. The rules for figuring the foreign
tax credit after a country’s sanction period ends are more
fully explained in Revenue Ruling 92-62, Cumulative Bulletin 1992-2, page 193. Issues of the Cumulative Bulletin
are available in most IRS offices and you are welcome to
read them there.

Taxes Imposed on Certain Dividends
You cannot claim a foreign tax credit for withholding tax
(defined later) on dividends paid or accrued if either of the
following applies to the dividends.
1. The dividends are on stock you held for less than 16
days during the 31-day period that begins 15 days before the ex-dividend date (defined later).
2. The dividends are for a period or periods totaling
more than 366 days on preferred stock you held for
less than 46 days during the 91-day period that begins 45 days before the ex-dividend date. If the dividend is not for more than 366 days, rule (1) applies to
the preferred stock.
When figuring how long you held the stock, count the day
you sold it, but do not count the day you acquired it or any
days on which you were protected from risk of loss.
Regardless of how long you held the stock, you cannot
claim the credit to the extent you have an obligation under
a short sale or otherwise to make payments related to the
dividend for positions in substantially similar or related
property.
Withholding tax. For this purpose, withholding tax includes any tax determined on a gross basis. It does not include any tax which is in the nature of a prepayment of a
tax imposed on a net basis.
Ex-dividend date. The ex-dividend date is the first date
following the declaration of a dividend on which the purchaser of a stock is not entitled to receive the next dividend payment.

Publication 514 (2025)

Example 1. You bought common stock from a foreign
corporation on November 3. You sold the stock on November 19. You received a dividend on this stock because
you owned it on the ex-dividend date of November 5. To
claim the credit, you must have held the stock for at least
16 days within the 31-day period that began on October
21 (15 days before the ex-dividend date). Because you
held the stock for 16 days, from November 4 until November 19, you are entitled to the credit.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that you sold the stock on November 14. You held
the stock for only 11 days. You are not entitled to the
credit.
Exception. If you are a securities dealer who actively
conducts business in a foreign country, you may be able to
claim a foreign tax credit for qualified taxes paid on dividends regardless of how long you held the stock or
whether you were obligated to make payments for positions in substantially similar or related property. See section 901(k)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code for more information.

Taxes Withheld on Income or Gain (Other
Than Dividends)
For income or gain (other than dividends) paid or accrued
on property, you cannot claim a foreign tax credit for withholding tax (defined later):

• If you have not held the property for at least 16 days

during the 31-day period that begins 15 days before
the date on which the right to receive the payment arises, or

• To the extent you have to make related payments on
positions in substantially similar or related property.

When figuring how long you held the property, count the
day you sold it, but do not count the day you acquired it or
any days on which you were protected from risk of loss.
Withholding tax. For this purpose, withholding tax includes any tax determined on a gross basis. It does not include any tax which is in the nature of a prepayment of a
tax imposed on a net basis.
Exception for dealers. If you are a dealer in property
who actively conducts business in a foreign country, you
may be able to claim a foreign tax credit for qualified taxes
withheld on income or gain from that property regardless
of how long you held it or whether you have to make related payments on positions in substantially similar or related property. See section 901(I)(2) of the Internal Revenue
Code for more information.

Covered Asset Acquisition
You cannot take a credit for the disqualified portion of any
foreign tax paid or accrued in connection with a covered
asset acquisition. A covered asset acquisition includes
certain acquisitions that result in a stepped-up basis for
U.S. tax purposes but not for foreign tax purposes. For
15

more information, see Internal Revenue Code section
901(m) and the regulations under that section, including
Treasury Decision 9895, 2020-15 I.R.B. 565, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2020-15_IRB#TD-9895.

Taxes in Connection With the Purchase or
Sale of Oil or Gas
You cannot claim a foreign tax credit for taxes paid or accrued to a foreign country in connection with the purchase
or sale of oil or gas extracted in that country if you do not
have an economic interest in the oil or gas, and the purchase price or sales price is different from the fair market
value (FMV) of the oil or gas at the time of purchase or
sale.

Taxes on Foreign Mineral Income
You must reduce any taxes paid or accrued to a foreign
country or territory on mineral income from that country or
territory if you were allowed a deduction for percentage
depletion for any part of the mineral income. For details,
see Regulations section 1.901-3.

Taxes From International Boycott
Operations
If you participate in or cooperate with an international boycott during the tax year, your foreign taxes resulting from
boycott activities will reduce the total taxes available for
credit. See the instructions for line 12 in the Form 1116 instructions to figure this reduction.
In most cases, this rule does not apply to employees
with wages who are working and living in boycotting countries, or to retirees with pensions who are living in these
countries.
List of boycotting countries. A list of the countries that
may require participation in or cooperation with an international boycott is published by the Department of the Treasury. As of July 2025, the following countries are listed.

• Iraq.
• Kuwait.
• Lebanon.
• Libya.
• Qatar.
• Saudi Arabia.
• Syria.
• Yemen.
The list is updated quarterly and is available at
FederalRegister.gov. Enter “International Boycott” in the
search box.
For information concerning changes to the list, write to:

16

Internal Revenue Service
International Section
Philadelphia, PA 19255-0725
Determinations of whether the boycott rule applies.
You may request a determination from the IRS as to
whether a particular operation constitutes participation in
or cooperation with an international boycott. The procedures for obtaining a determination from the IRS are outlined in Revenue Procedure 77-9 in Cumulative Bulletin
1977-1. Cumulative Bulletins are available in most IRS offices and you are welcome to read them there.
Public inspection. A determination and any related
background file are open to public inspection. However,
your identity and certain other information will remain confidential.
Reporting requirements. You must file a report with the
IRS if you or any of the following persons have operations
in or related to a boycotting country or with the government, a company, or a national of a boycotting country.

• A foreign corporation in which you own 10% or more

of the voting power or value of all classes of stock but
only if you own the stock of the foreign corporation directly or through foreign entities.

• A partnership in which you are a partner.
• A trust you are treated as owning.
Form 5713 required. If you have to file a report, you
must use Form 5713 and attach all supporting schedules.
See the Instructions for Form 5713 for information on
when and where to file the form.
Penalty for failure to file. If you willfully fail to make a
report, in addition to other penalties, you may be fined
$25,000 or imprisoned for no more than 1 year, or both.

Taxes on Combined Foreign Oil and
Gas Income
You must reduce your foreign taxes by a portion of any foreign taxes imposed on combined foreign oil and gas income. The amount of the reduction is the amount by
which your foreign oil and gas taxes exceed the amount of
your combined foreign oil and gas income multiplied by a
fraction equal to your pre-credit U.S. tax liability divided by
your worldwide taxable income. You may be entitled to
carry over to other years taxes reduced under this rule.
See Internal Revenue Code section 907(f).
“Combined foreign oil and gas income” means the sum
of foreign oil-related income and foreign oil and gas extraction income. Foreign oil and gas taxes are the sum of
foreign oil and gas extraction taxes and foreign oil-related
taxes.

Publication 514 (2025)

Taxes of U.S. Persons Controlling
Foreign Corporations and
Partnerships
If you had control of a foreign corporation or a foreign partnership for the annual accounting period of that corporation or partnership that ended with or within your tax year,
you may have to file an annual information return. If you do
not file the required information return, you may have to reduce the foreign taxes that may be used for the foreign tax
credit. See Penalty for not filing Form 5471 or Form 8865,
later.
U.S. persons controlling foreign corporations. If you
are a U.S. citizen or resident who had control of a foreign
corporation during the annual accounting period of that
corporation, and you owned the stock on the last day of
the foreign corporation’s annual accounting period, you
may have to file an annual information return on Form
5471. Under this rule, you generally had control of a foreign corporation if, at any time during your tax year, you
owned stock possessing:

• More than 50% of the total combined voting power of
all classes of stock entitled to vote, or

• More than 50% of the total value of shares of all
classes of stock of the foreign corporation.

U.S. persons controlling foreign partnerships. If you
are a U.S. citizen or resident who had control of a foreign
partnership at any time during the partnership’s tax year,
you may have to file an annual information return on Form
8865, Return of U.S. Persons With Respect to Certain Foreign Partnerships. Under this rule, you generally had control of the partnership if you owned more than 50% of the
capital or profits interest, or an interest to which more than
50% of the deductions or losses were allocated.
You may also have to file Form 8865 if, at any time during the tax year of the partnership, you owned a 10% or
greater interest in the partnership while the partnership
was controlled by U.S. persons owning at least a 10% interest. See the Instructions for Form 8865 for more information.
Penalty for not filing Form 5471 or Form 8865. In
most cases, there is a penalty of $10,000 for each annual
accounting period for which you fail to furnish information.
Additional penalties apply if the failure continues for more
than 90 days after the day the IRS mails you notice of the
failure to furnish the information.
If you fail to file either Form 5471 or Form 8865 when
due, you may also be required to reduce by 10% all foreign taxes that may be used for the foreign tax credit. Additional reductions apply if the failure continues for 90
days or more after the date the IRS mails you notice of the
failure to furnish the information. The total reductions shall
not exceed the greater of $10,000 or the income of the foreign corporation or foreign partnership for the accounting
period for which the failure occurs. This foreign tax credit
penalty is also reduced by the amount of the dollar penalty
imposed.
Publication 514 (2025)

Taxes Related to a Foreign Tax Credit
Splitting Event
Reduce taxes paid or accrued by any taxes paid or accrued with respect to a foreign tax credit splitting event.
For foreign taxes paid or accrued in tax years beginning
after 2010, if there is a foreign tax credit splitting event,
you may not take the foreign tax into account before the
tax year in which you take the income into account. There
is a foreign tax credit splitting event with respect to a foreign income tax if (in connection with a splitter arrangement listed below) the related income is (or will be) taken
into account by a covered person. A covered person is either of the following.

• An entity in which you hold, directly or indirectly, at

least a 10% ownership interest (determined by vote or
value).

• Any person who is related to you. For a list of related

persons, see Nondeductible Loss in chapter 2 of Pub.
544.

A covered asset acquisition under Internal Revenue
Code section 901(m) is not a foreign tax credit splitting
event under Internal Revenue Code section 909.
For more information, see section 909 and the regulations under that section.
Splitter arrangements. The following paragraphs summarize the splitter arrangements. For more details, see
Regulations section 1.909-2(b).
Reverse hybrid splitter arrangement. A reverse hybrid is a splitter arrangement if you pay or accrue foreign
income taxes with respect to income of a reverse hybrid. A
reverse hybrid is an entity that is a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes but is a fiscally transparent entity (under the principles of Regulations section 1.894-1(d)
(3)) or a branch under the laws of a foreign country imposing tax on the income of the entity.
Loss-sharing splitter arrangement. A foreign group
relief or other loss-sharing regime is a loss-sharing splitter
arrangement to the extent that a shared loss of a U.S.
combined income group could have been used to offset
income of that group (usable shared loss) but is used instead to offset income of another U.S. combined income
group.
U.S. equity hybrid instrument splitter arrangement.
A U.S. equity hybrid instrument is a splitter arrangement if
payments or accruals on or with respect to this instrument
meet all of the following conditions.
1. They give rise to foreign income taxes paid or accrued
by the owner of this instrument.
2. They give rise to income tax deductions for the issuer
under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction in which the issuer is subject to tax.
3. They do not give rise to income for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
17

A U.S. equity hybrid instrument is an instrument that is
treated as equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes but
is treated as indebtedness for foreign tax purposes, or
with respect to which the issuer is otherwise entitled to a
deduction for foreign tax purposes for amounts paid or accrued with respect to the instrument.
U.S. debt hybrid instrument splitter arrangement.
A U.S. debt hybrid instrument is an instrument that is treated as equity for foreign tax purposes but as indebtedness
for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
A U.S. debt hybrid instrument is a splitter arrangement
if the issuer of the U.S. debt hybrid instrument pays or accrues foreign income taxes with respect to income in an
amount equal to the interest (including original issue discount) paid or accrued on the instrument that is deductible
for U.S. federal income tax purposes but that does not
give rise to a deduction under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction in which the issuer is subject to tax.
Partnership interbranch payment splitter arrangement. An allocation of foreign income tax that a partnership pays or accrues with respect to an interbranch payment as described in Regulations section 1.704-1(b)(4)
(viii)(d)(3) (the interbranch payment tax) is a splitter arrangement to the extent the interbranch payment tax is not
allocated to the partners in the same proportion as the distributive shares of income in the creditable foreign tax expenditures (CFTE) category to which the interbranch payment tax is or would be assigned under Regulations
section 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii)(d) without regard to Regulations
section 1.704-1(b)(4)(viii)(d)(3).

How To Figure the Credit
As already indicated, you can claim a foreign tax credit
only for foreign taxes on income, war profits, or excess
profits, or taxes in lieu of those taxes. In addition, there is a
limit on the amount of the credit that you can claim. You
figure this limit and your credit on Form 1116. Your credit
is the amount of foreign tax you paid or accrued or, if
smaller, the limit.
If you have foreign taxes available for credit but you
cannot use them because of the limit, you may be able to
carry them back 1 tax year and forward to the next 10 tax
years. See Carryback and Carryover, later.
Also, certain tax treaties have special rules that you
must consider when figuring your foreign tax credit. See
Tax Treaties, later.
Exemption from foreign tax credit limit. You will not be
subject to this limit and will be able to claim the credit without using Form 1116 if the following requirements are met.

• Your only foreign source gross income for the tax year
is passive category income. Passive category income
is defined later under Separate Limit Income. However, for purposes of this rule, high-taxed income and
export financing interest are also passive category income.

18

• Your qualified foreign taxes for the tax year are not

more than $300 ($600 if married filing a joint return).

• All of your gross foreign income and the foreign taxes
are reported to you on a payee statement (such as a
Form 1099-DIV or 1099-INT).

• You elect this procedure for the tax year.
If you make this election, you cannot carry back or
carry over any unused foreign tax to or from this tax year.
Caution: This election exempts you only from the limit figured on Form 1116 and not from the other requirements
described in this publication. For example, the election
does not exempt you from the requirements discussed
earlier under What Foreign Taxes Qualify for the Credit.

Limit on the Credit
Your foreign tax credit cannot be more than your total U.S.
tax liability multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the
fraction is your taxable income from sources outside the
United States. The denominator is your total taxable income from U.S. and foreign sources.
To determine the limit, you must separate your foreign
source income into categories, as discussed later under
Separate Limit Income. The limit treats all foreign income
and expenses in each separate category as a single unit
and limits the credit to the U.S. income tax on the taxable
income in that category from all sources outside the United States.
Determining the foreign tax credit limit if you elect to
be taxed at corporate tax rates under section 962. If
you elect under Internal Revenue Code section 962 to be
taxed initially at corporate rates on your section 951(a)
amount and GILTI inclusion for the tax year, determine the
limit on the related foreign tax credit on the applicable
separate category Forms 1118. For purposes of completing the Forms 1118, the numerator determined for each
separate category includes only your foreign source section 951(a) amount and your foreign source GILTI inclusion (less its portion of the section 250 deduction), as applicable. The total taxable income in the denominator is
equal to your total section 951(a) amount and GILTI inclusion less your section 250 deduction. Your total U.S. tax liability multiplied by this fraction is the amount of your U.S.
tax liability computed with respect to amounts subject to
section 962 for the tax year (before taking into account foreign tax credits).
Complete Form 1116 to determine the limit on the
credit that you are allowed to take with respect to any
other foreign income taxes that you paid or accrued during
the tax year, but do not include in the numerator or denominator of the fraction your section 951(a) amount, your
GILTI inclusion, and the amount of your section 250 deduction for the tax year. Do not include in the amount of
your total U.S. tax liability, which you multiply by this fraction, the amount of your U.S. tax liability computed with respect to amounts subject to section 962 for the tax year
(before taking into account foreign tax credits). See Internal Revenue Code sections 960 and 962 and the
Publication 514 (2025)

regulations under those sections for more information.
See, in particular, Regulations section 1.962-1(c) for a detailed example of computing separate foreign tax credit
limits required when you are filing both a Form 1116 and a
Form 1118.

Separate Limit Income
You must figure the limit on a separate Form 1116 for each
of the following categories of income.

• Section 951A category income.
• Foreign branch category income.
• Passive category income.
• General category income.
• Section 901(j) income.
• Certain income re-sourced by treaty.
• Lump-sum distributions (LSDs).
In figuring your separate limits, you must combine the
income (and losses) in each category from all foreign
sources, and then apply the limit.
Income from controlled foreign corporations (CFCs).
As a U.S. shareholder, certain income that you receive or
accrue from a CFC is treated as separate limit income.
You are considered a U.S. shareholder in a CFC if you
own 10% or more of the total voting power or value of all
classes of the corporation’s stock.
In most cases, subpart F inclusions are treated as separate limit income in the same category to which they are
attributable at the level of the CFC. Interest, rents, and royalties from a CFC are treated as passive category income
if they are attributable to the passive category income of
the CFC. A dividend paid or accrued out of the earnings
and profits of a CFC is treated as passive category income in the same proportion that the part of earnings and
profits attributable to passive category income bears to
the total earnings and profits of the CFC. The portions of
interest, rents, royalties, and dividends that are not treated
as passive category income are treated as separate limit
income in another category following the rules described
below for each category as applied at the level of the U.S.
shareholder.
Partnership distributive share. In most cases, a partner’s distributive share of partnership income is treated as
separate limit income if it is from the separate limit income
of the partnership. However, if the partner owns less than
a 10% interest in the partnership, the income is treated as
passive income in most cases. For more information, see
the Partner’s Instructions for Schedule K-3 (Form 1065),
and Regulations section 1.904-4(n).

Section 951A Category Income
Section 951A category income, a new category beginning
in 2018, consists of the GILTI a U.S. shareholder of a CFC
is required to include in income under section 951A (other
than GILTI that is passive category income). A U.S.
Publication 514 (2025)

shareholder’s GILTI is determined based on its aggregate
pro rata share of the tested income of all CFCs it owns,
offset by its pro rata share of tested loss of any CFCs it
owns, and the shareholder’s net deemed tangible income
return with respect to the CFCs. A CFC’s tested income
does not include effectively connected income, subpart F
income, foreign oil and gas income, or certain related
party payments. GILTI is included in income in a manner
generally similar to inclusions of subpart F income. See Internal Revenue Code section 951A for more information.

Foreign Branch Category Income
Foreign branch category income consists of the business
profits of a U.S. person that are attributable to one or more
QBUs in one or more foreign countries. Foreign branch
category income does not include any passive category
income. See Internal Revenue Code section 904(d)(2)(J)
and Regulations section 1.904-4(f).

Passive Category Income
Passive category income consists of passive income and
specified passive category income.
Passive income. Except as described earlier under Income from controlled foreign corporations and Partnership
distributive share, passive income generally includes the
following.

• Dividends.
• Interest.
• Rents.
• Royalties.
• Annuities.
• Net gain from the sale of non-income-producing in-

vestment property or property that generates passive
income.

• Net gain from commodities transactions, except for

hedging and active business gains or losses of producers, processors, merchants, or handlers of commodities.

• Amounts includible in income under section 1293 of

the Internal Revenue Code (relating to certain passive
foreign investment companies).

If you receive foreign source distributions from a mutual
fund or other RIC that elects to pass through to you the
foreign tax credit, in most cases, the income is considered
passive. The mutual fund will provide you with a Form
1099-DIV or substitute statement showing the amount of
foreign taxes it elected to pass through to you.
What is not passive income. Passive income does not
include any of the following.

• Gains or losses from the sale of inventory property or

property held mainly for sale to customers in the ordinary course of your trade or business.
19

• Export financing interest.
• High-taxed income.
• Active business rents and royalties.
• Any income that is defined in another separate limit
category.

Passive income also does not include financial services
income derived by a financial services entity. See Financial services income, later.
Export financing interest. This is interest derived
from financing the sale or other disposition of property for
use outside the United States if:

• The property is manufactured, produced, grown, or

extracted in the United States by you or a related person; and

• 50% or less of the FMV of the property is due to imports into the United States.

High-taxed income. High-taxed income is income if
the foreign taxes you paid on the income (after allocation
of expenses) exceed the highest U.S. tax that can be imposed on the income. See Regulations section 1.904-4(c)
for more information.
Specified passive category income. Specified passive
category income consists of:
1. Dividends from a domestic international sales corporation (DISC) or former DISC to the extent the dividends are treated as foreign source income; and
2. Distributions from a former foreign sales corporation
(FSC) out of earnings and profits that are attributable
to:
a. Foreign trade income, or
b. Interest and carrying charges derived from a
transaction that results in foreign trade income.

General Category Income
General category income is income that is not section
951A category income, foreign branch category income,
or passive category income, or does not fall into one of the
other separate limit categories discussed later. In most cases, it includes active business income and wages, salaries, and overseas allowances of an individual as an employee. General category income includes high-taxed
income that would otherwise be passive income. See
High-taxed income, earlier, under What is not passive income.
Financial services income. In general, financial services income is treated as general category income if it is
derived by a financial services entity. You are a financial
services entity if you are predominantly engaged in the active conduct of a banking, insurance, financing, or similar
business for the tax year. Financial services income of a
financial services entity generally includes income derived
in the active conduct of a banking, financing, insurance, or
similar business.
20

If you qualify as a financial services entity because you
treat certain items of income as active financing income
under Regulations section 1.904-4(e)(2)(i)(Y), you must
show the type and amount of each item on an attachment
to Form 1116.

Section 901(j) Income
This is income earned from activities conducted in sanctioned countries. Income derived from each sanctioned
country is subject to a separate foreign tax credit limitation. Therefore, you must use a separate Form 1116 for income earned from each such country. See Taxes Imposed
by Sanctioned Countries (Section 901(j) Income) under
Taxes for Which You Can Only Take an Itemized Deduction, earlier.

Certain Income Re-Sourced by Treaty
If an applicable income tax treaty provides that certain
U.S. source income is treated as foreign source, and you
elect to apply the treaty, the income will be treated as foreign source.
You must figure a separate foreign tax credit limitation
for any such income for which you claim benefits under a
treaty, using a separate Form 1116 for each amount of
re-sourced income from a treaty country. This rule does
not apply to income that is re-sourced by reason of the relief from double taxation rules in any U.S. income tax
treaty that is solely applicable to U.S. citizens who are residents of the foreign treaty country. See Internal Revenue
Code sections 865(h), 904(d)(6), and 904(h)(10) and the
regulations under those sections (including Regulations
section 1.904-4(k)) for any grouping rules and other exceptions.
See Tax Treaties, later, for further information regarding
income re-sourced by treaty.

Lump-Sum Distributions (LSDs)
If you receive a foreign source LSD from a retirement plan,
and you figure the tax on it using the special averaging
treatment for LSDs, you must make a special computation. Follow the Form 1116 instructions and complete the
worksheet in those instructions to determine your foreign
tax credit on the LSD.
Tip: The special averaging treatment for LSDs is elected
by filing Form 4972, Tax on Lump-Sum Distributions.

Allocation of Foreign Taxes
Solely for purposes of allocating foreign taxes to separate
limit income categories, those separate limit categories include any U.S. source income that is taxed by the foreign
country or U.S. territory.
If you paid or accrued foreign income tax for a tax year
on income in more than one separate limit income category, allocate the tax to the income category to which the
Publication 514 (2025)

tax specifically relates. If the tax is not specifically related
to any one category, you must allocate the tax to each category of income.

Foreign Taxes From a Partnership or
an S Corporation

You do this by multiplying the foreign income tax related
to more than one category by a fraction. The numerator of
the fraction is the net income taxed by the foreign country
in a separate category. The denominator is the total net income.

If foreign taxes were paid or accrued on your behalf by a
partnership or an S corporation, you will figure your credit
using certain foreign tax information from the Schedule K-3 you received from the partnership or S corporation. See the Instructions for Form 1116, and the partner
and shareholder instructions for Schedule K-3 (Form 1065
or 1120-S) for instructions on how to report that information.

You figure net income by deducting from the gross income in each category and from the total gross income
taxed by the foreign country or U.S. territory any expenses, losses, and other deductions definitely related to
them under the laws of the foreign country or U.S. territory.
If the expenses, losses, and other deductions are not definitely related to a category of income under foreign law,
they are apportioned under the principles of the foreign
law. If the foreign law does not provide for apportionment,
use the principles covered in the regulations under Internal Revenue Code sections 861 and 904.
Example. You paid foreign income taxes of $3,200 to
Country A on wages of $80,000 and interest income of
$3,000. These were the only items of income on your foreign return. You also have deductions of $4,400 that, under foreign law, are not definitely related to either the wages or interest income. Your total net income is $78,600
($83,000 – $4,400).
Because the foreign tax is not specifically for either item
of income, you must allocate the tax between the wages
and the interest under the tax laws of Country A. For purposes of this example, assume that the laws of Country A
do this in a manner similar to the Internal Revenue Code.
First, figure the net income in each category by allocating
those expenses that are not definitely related to either category of income.
You figure the expenses allocable to wages (general
category income) as follows.
$80,000 (wages)
×
$4,400
$83,000 (total income)
The net wages are $75,759 ($80,000 − $4,241).

= $4,241

You figure the expenses allocable to interest (passive
category income) as follows.
$3,000 (interest)
×
$83,000 (total income)
The net interest is $2,841 ($3,000 − $159).

$4,400

= $159

Then, to figure the foreign tax on the wages, you multiply the total foreign income tax by the following fraction.
$75,759 (net wages)
×
$78,600 (total net income)

$3,200

=

$3,084

You figure the foreign tax on the interest income as follows.
$2,841 (net interest)
×
$78,600 (total net income)

Publication 514 (2025)

$3,200

=

$116

Figuring the Limit
Before you can determine the limit on your credit, you
must first figure your total taxable income from all sources
before the deduction for personal exemptions. For individuals, this is the sum of (i) Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 11b, minus Form 1040, 1040-SR, or
1040-NR, line 14; and (ii) Schedule 1-A (Form 1040),
line 37. Then, for each category of income, you must figure your taxable income from sources outside the United
States.
If your taxable income from sources outside the United
States for a category of income is zero or less, your limit
for that category of income is zero. If your total taxable income from all sources is zero or less, your limit is zero for
all categories of income.
Before you can figure your taxable income in each category from sources outside the United States, you must
first determine whether your gross income in each category is from U.S. sources or foreign sources. Some of the
general rules for figuring the source of income are outlined
in Table 2.
See Determining the foreign tax credit limit if you elect
to be taxed at corporate tax rates under section 962, earlier, for more details that apply to you if you make a section
962 election.
See Determining the Source of Compensation for Labor or Personal Services and Determining the Source of
Income From the Sales or Exchanges of Certain Personal
Property, later, for a more detailed discussion on determining the source of these types of income.
Determining the source of income from U.S. territories. In most cases, the rules for determining whether income is from sources in a U.S. territory are the same as
those for determining whether income is from U.S. sources. However, exceptions do apply. See Pub. 570 for more
information.

Determining the Source of Compensation
for Labor or Personal Services
If you are an employee and receive compensation for labor or personal services performed both inside and outside the United States, special rules apply in determining
the source of the compensation. Compensation (other
than certain fringe benefits) is sourced on a time basis.
21

Table 2. Source of Income
Item of income

Factor determining source

Salaries, wages, other compensation

Where services performed

Business income:
Personal services
Sale of inventory—purchased
Sale of inventory—produced

Where services performed
Where sold
Allocation

Interest

Residence of payer

Dividends

Whether a U.S. or foreign corporation*

Rents

Location of property

Royalties:
Natural resources
Patents, copyrights, etc.

Location of property
Where property is used

Sale of real property

Location of property

Sale of personal property

Seller’s tax home (but see Determining the Source of Income From the Sales
or Exchanges of Certain Personal Property, later, for exceptions)

Pension distributions attributable to contributions

Where services were performed that earned the pension

Investment earnings on pension contributions

Location of pension trust

Sale of natural resources

Allocation based on FMV of product at export terminal. For more information,
see Regulations section 1.863-1(b).

* Exception: Part of a dividend paid by a foreign corporation is U.S. source if at least 25% of the corporation’s gross income is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business for the
3 tax years before the year in which the dividends are declared.

Certain fringe benefits (such as housing and education)
are sourced on a geographical basis.
Or you may be permitted to use an alternative basis to
determine the source of compensation. See Alternative
basis, later.
If you are self-employed, you determine the source of
compensation for labor or personal services from self-employment on the basis that most correctly reflects the
proper source of that income under the facts and circumstances of your particular case. In many cases, the facts
and circumstances will call for an apportionment on a time
basis as explained next.
Time basis. Use a time basis to figure your foreign
source compensation (other than the fringe benefits discussed later). Do this by multiplying your total compensation (other than the fringe benefits discussed later) by the
following fraction.
Number of days you performed services in the foreign
country during the year
Total number of days you performed services during the
year

You can use a unit of time less than a day in the above
fraction, if appropriate. The time period for which the compensation is made does not have to be a year. Instead,
you can use another distinct, separate, and continuous
time period if you can establish to the satisfaction of the
IRS that this other period is more appropriate.
Example 1. Christina, a U.S. citizen, worked 240 days
for a U.S. company during the tax year. Christina received
22

$80,000 in compensation. None of it was for fringe benefits. Christina performed services in the United States for
60 days and performed services in the United Kingdom for
180 days. Using the time basis for determining the source
of compensation, $60,000 ($80,000 × 180/240) is Christina’s
foreign source income.
Example 2. Robert, a U.S. citizen, is employed by a
U.S. corporation. Robert’s principal place of work is in the
United States. Robert’s annual salary is $100,000. None
of Robert’s annual salary is for fringe benefits. During the
first quarter of the year, Robert worked entirely within the
United States. On April 1, Robert was transferred to Singapore for the remainder of the year. Robert is able to establish that the first quarter of the year and the last 3 quarters of the year are two separate, distinct, and continuous
periods of time. Accordingly, $25,000 of Robert’s annual
salary is attributable to the first quarter of the year (0.25 ×
$100,000). All of it is U.S. source income because Robert
worked entirely within the United States during that quarter. The remaining $75,000 is attributable to the last 3
quarters of the year. During those quarters, Robert worked
150 days in Singapore and 30 days in the United States.
Robert’s periodic performance of services in the United
States did not result in distinct, separate, and continuous
periods of time. Of Robert’s $75,000 salary, $62,500
($75,000 × 150/180) is foreign source income for the year.
Multi-year compensation. In most cases, the source
of multi-year compensation is determined on a time basis
over the period to which the compensation is attributable.
Multi-year compensation is compensation that is included
in your income in 1 tax year but that is attributable to a period that includes 2 or more tax years.
Publication 514 (2025)

Table 3. Source of Fringe Benefits
Fringe benefit

Factor determining source

Housing, education, and local transportation

Location of your principal place of work

Tax reimbursement

Location of the jurisdiction that imposed the tax for which you were reimbursed

Hazardous or hardship duty pay

Location of the hazardous or hardship duty zone for which you received the pay

Moving expense reimbursement

Location of your new principal place of work*

* You can determine the source based on the location of your former principal place of work if you have sufficient evidence that such determination of source is more appropriate under
the facts and circumstances of your case.

You determine the period to which the compensation is
attributable based on the facts and circumstances of your
case. For example, an amount of compensation that specifically relates to a period of time that includes several
calendar years is attributable to the entire multi-year period.
The amount of compensation treated as from foreign
sources is figured by multiplying the total multi-year compensation by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is
the number of days (or unit of time less than a day, if appropriate) that you performed labor or personal services in
the foreign country in connection with the project. The denominator of the fraction is the total number of days (or
unit of time less than a day, if appropriate) that you performed labor or personal services in connection with the
project.
Geographical basis. Compensation you receive as an
employee in the form of the following fringe benefits is
sourced on a geographical basis.

• Housing.
• Education.
• Local transportation.
• Tax reimbursement.
• Hazardous or hardship duty pay.
• Moving expense reimbursement.
The amount of fringe benefits must be reasonable and you
must substantiate them by adequate records or by sufficient evidence. Table 3 summarizes the factors used for
determining the source of these fringe benefits.
Housing. The source of a housing fringe benefit is determined based on the location of your principal place of
work. A housing fringe benefit includes payments to you or
on your behalf (and your family if your family resides with
you) only for the following.

• Rent.
• Utilities (except telephone charges).
• Real and personal property insurance.
• Occupancy taxes not deductible under section 164 or
216(a).

• Nonrefundable fees for securing a leasehold.
• Rental of furniture and accessories.
• Household repairs.
Publication 514 (2025)

• Residential parking.
• Fair rental value of housing provided in kind by your
employer.

A housing fringe benefit does not include:

• Deductible interest and taxes (including deductible interest and taxes of a tenant-stockholder in a cooperative housing corporation);

• The cost of buying property, including principal payments on a mortgage;

• The cost of domestic labor (maids, gardeners, etc.);
• Pay television subscriptions;
• Improvements and other expenses that increase the
value or appreciably prolong the life of property;

• Purchased furniture or accessories;
• Depreciation or amortization of property or improvements;

• The value of meals or lodging that you exclude from
gross income; or

• The value of meals or lodging that you deduct as moving expenses.

Education. The source of an education fringe benefit
for the education expenses of your dependents is determined based on the location of your principal place of
work. An education fringe benefit includes payments only
for the following expenses for education at an elementary
or secondary school.

• Tuition, fees, academic tutoring, special needs serv-

ices for a special needs student, books, supplies, and
other equipment.

• Room and board and uniforms that are required or

provided by the school in connection with enrollment
or attendance.

Local transportation. The source of a local transportation fringe benefit is determined based on the location of
your principal place of work. Your local transportation
fringe benefit is the amount that you receive as compensation for your local transportation or that of your spouse
or dependents at the location of your principal place of
work. The amount treated as a local transportation fringe
benefit is limited to actual expenses incurred for local
transportation and the fair rental value of any employer-provided vehicle used predominantly by you or your
spouse or dependents for local transportation. Actual
23

expenses do not include the cost (including interest) of
any vehicle purchased by you or on your behalf.
Tax reimbursement. The source of a foreign tax reimbursement fringe benefit is determined based on the location of the jurisdiction that imposed the tax for which you
are reimbursed.
Hazardous or hardship duty pay. The source of a
hazardous or hardship duty pay fringe benefit is determined based on the location of the hazardous or hardship
duty zone for which the hazardous or hardship duty pay
fringe benefit is paid. A hazardous or hardship duty zone
is any place in a foreign country which meets either of the
following conditions.

• The zone is designated by the Secretary of State as a

place where living conditions are extraordinarily difficult, notably unhealthy, or where excessive physical
hardships exist, and for which a post differential of
15% or more would be provided under section
5925(b) of title 5 of the U.S. Code to any officer or employee of the U.S. Government at that place.

• The zone is where civil insurrection, civil war, terror-

ism, or wartime conditions threaten physical harm or
imminent danger to your health and well-being.

Compensation is treated as a hazardous or hardship
duty pay fringe benefit only if your employer provides the
hazardous or hardship duty pay fringe benefit only to employees performing labor or personal services in a hazardous or hardship duty zone.
The amount of compensation treated as a hazardous or
hardship duty pay fringe benefit cannot exceed the maximum amount that the U.S. Government would allow its officers or employees present at that location.
Moving expense reimbursement. In most cases, the
source of a moving expense reimbursement is based on
the location of your new principal place of work. However,
the source is determined based on the location of your former principal place of work if you have sufficient evidence
that such determination of source is more appropriate under the facts and circumstances of your case. Sufficient
evidence generally requires an agreement between you
and your employer in most cases, or a written statement of
company policy, which is reduced to writing before the
move and which is entered into or established to induce
you or other employees to move to another country. The
written statement or agreement must state that your employer will reimburse you for moving expenses that you incur to return to your former principal place of work regardless of whether you continue to work for your employer
after returning to that location. It may contain certain conditions upon which the right to reimbursement is determined as long as those conditions set forth standards that
are definitely ascertainable and can only be fulfilled prior
to, or through completion of, your return move to your former principal place of work.
Alternative basis. If you are an employee, you can determine the source of your compensation under an alternative basis if you establish to the satisfaction of the IRS
that, under the facts and circumstances of your case, the
24

alternative basis more properly determines the source of
your compensation than the time or geographical basis. If
you use an alternative basis, you must keep (and have
available for inspection) records to document why the alternative basis more properly determines the source of
your compensation. Also, if your total compensation from
all sources was $250,000 or more, you must check the
box on Form 1116, line 1b, and attach a written statement
to your tax return that sets forth all of the following.
1. Your name and social security number (written across
the top of the statement).
2. The specific compensation income, or the specific
fringe benefit, for which you are using the alternative
basis.
3. For each item in (2), the alternative basis of allocation
of source used.
4. For each item in (2), a computation showing how the
alternative allocation was computed.
5. A comparison of the dollar amount of the U.S. compensation and foreign compensation sourced under
both the alternative basis and the time or geographical basis discussed earlier.

Transportation Income
Transportation income is income from the use of a vessel
or aircraft or for the performance of services directly related to the use of any vessel or aircraft. This is true whether
the vessel or aircraft is owned, hired, or leased. The term
“vessel or aircraft” includes any container used in connection with a vessel or aircraft.
All income from transportation that begins and ends in
the United States is treated as derived from sources in the
United States. If the transportation begins or ends in the
United States, 50% of the transportation income is treated
as derived from sources in the United States.
For transportation income from personal services, 50%
of the income is U.S. source income if the transportation is
between the United States and a U.S. territory. For nonresident aliens, this only applies to income derived from,
or in connection with, an aircraft.

Determining the Source of Income From the
Sales or Exchanges of Certain Personal
Property
In most cases, if personal property is sold by a U.S. resident, the gain or loss from the sale is treated as U.S.
source. If personal property is sold by a nonresident, the
gain or loss is treated as foreign source.
This rule does not apply to the sale of inventory, intangible property, or depreciable property, or property sold
through a foreign office or fixed place of business. The
rules for these types of property are discussed later.
Publication 514 (2025)

U.S. resident. The term “U.S. resident,” for this purpose,
means a U.S. citizen or resident alien who does not have a
tax home in a foreign country. The term also includes a
nonresident alien who has a tax home in the United
States. In most cases, your tax home is the general area
of your main place of business, employment, or post of
duty, regardless of where you maintain your family home.
Your tax home is the place where you are permanently or
indefinitely engaged to work as an employee or self-employed individual. If you do not have a regular or main
place of business because of the nature of your work, then
your tax home is the place where you regularly live. If you
do not fit either of these categories, you are considered an
itinerant and your tax home is wherever you work.
Nonresident. A nonresident is any person who is not a
U.S. resident.
U.S. citizens and resident aliens with a foreign tax
home will be treated as nonresidents for a sale of personal
property only if an income tax of at least 10% of the gain
on the sale is paid to a foreign country.
This rule also applies to losses if the foreign country
would have imposed a 10% or higher marginal tax rate
had the sale resulted in a gain.
Inventory. Gains, profits, and income from the sale or exchange of inventory property produced partly in, and
partly outside, the United States must be sourced on the
basis of the location of production with respect to that
property. For example, income derived from the sale of inventory property to a foreign jurisdiction is sourced wholly
within the United States if the property was produced entirely in the United States, even if title passage occurred
elsewhere. Likewise, income derived from inventory property sold in the United States, but produced entirely in another country, is sourced in that country even if title passage occurs in the United States. If the inventory property
is produced partly in, and partly outside, the United
States, the income derived from its sale is sourced partly
in the United States. See Internal Revenue Code section
863(b).
Intangibles. Intangibles include patents, copyrights,
trademarks, and goodwill. The gain from the sale of amortizable or depreciable intangible property, up to the previously allowable amortization or depreciation deductions, is
sourced in the same way as the original deductions were
sourced. This is the same as the source rule for gain from
the sale of depreciable property. See Depreciable property next for details on how to apply this rule.
Gain in excess of the amortization or depreciation deduction is sourced in the country where the property is
used if the income from the sale is contingent on the productivity, use, or disposition of that property. If the income
is not contingent on the productivity, use, or disposition of
the property, the income is sourced according to the seller’s tax home, as discussed earlier. Payments for goodwill
are sourced in the country where the goodwill was generated if the payments are not contingent on the productivity,
use, or disposition of the property.

Depreciable property. The gain from the sale of depreciable personal property, up to the amount of the previously allowable depreciation, is sourced in the same way
as the original deductions were sourced. Thus, to the extent the previous deductions for depreciation were allocable to U.S. source income, the gain is U.S. source. To the
extent the depreciation deductions were allocable to foreign sources, the gain is foreign source income. Gain in
excess of the depreciation deductions is sourced the
same as inventory.
If personal property is used predominantly in the United
States, treat the gain from the sale, up to the amount of
the allowable depreciation deductions, entirely as U.S.
source income.
If the property is used predominantly outside the United
States, treat the gain, up to the amount of the depreciation
deductions, entirely as foreign source income.
A loss is sourced in the same way as the depreciation
deductions were sourced. However, if the property was
used predominantly outside the United States, the entire
loss reduces foreign source income.
Depreciation includes amortization and any other allowable deduction for a capital expense that is treated as a
deductible expense.
Sales through foreign office or fixed place of business. In most cases, income earned by U.S. residents
from the sale of personal property through an office or
other fixed place of business outside the United States is
treated as foreign source if:

• The income from the sale is from the business operations located outside the United States, and

• At least 10% of the income is paid as tax to the foreign
country.

If less than 10% is paid as tax, the income is U.S. source.
This rule also applies to losses if the foreign country
would have imposed a 10% or higher marginal tax rate
had the sale resulted in a gain.
This rule does not apply to income sourced under the
rules for inventory property, depreciable personal property,
intangible property (when payments in consideration for
the sale are contingent on the productivity, use, or disposition of the property), or goodwill.

Determining Taxable Income From Sources
Outside the United States
To figure your taxable income in each category from sources outside the United States, you first allocate to specific
classes (kinds) of gross income the expenses, losses, and
other deductions (including the deduction for foreign
housing costs) that are definitely related to that income.
Definitely related. A deduction is definitely related to a
specific class of gross income if it is incurred either:

• As a result of, or incident to, an activity from which that
income is derived; or

• In connection with property from which that income is
derived.

Publication 514 (2025)

25

Classes of gross income. You must determine which of
the following classes of gross income your deductions are
definitely related to.

• Compensation for services, including wages, salaries,
fees, and commissions.

• Gross income from business.
• Gains from dealings in property.
• Interest.
• Rents.
• Royalties.
• Dividends.
• Alimony and separate maintenance.
• Annuities.
• Pensions.
• Income from life insurance and endowment contracts.
• Income from canceled debts.
• Your share of partnership gross income.
• Income in respect of a decedent.
• Income from an estate or trust.
• Global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI).
Exempt income. When you allocate deductions that
are definitely related to one or more classes of gross income, you take exempt income into account for the allocation. However, do not take exempt income into account to
apportion deductions that are not definitely related to a
separate limit category.
Interest expense and state income taxes. You must
allocate and apportion your interest expense and state income taxes under the special rules discussed later under
Interest expense and State income taxes.
Class of gross income that includes more than
one separate limit category. If the class of gross income to which a deduction definitely relates includes either:

• More than one separate limit category, or
• At least one separate limit category and U.S. source
income,

you must apportion the definitely related deductions within
that class of gross income.
To apportion, you can use any method that reflects a
reasonable relationship between the deduction and the income in each separate limit category. One acceptable
method for many individuals is based on a comparison of
the gross income in a class of income to the gross income
in a separate limit income category.
Use the following formula to figure the amount of the
definitely related deduction apportioned to the income in
the separate limit category.
Gross income in separate limit category
Total gross income in the class

26

×

Deduction

Do not take exempt income into account when you apportion the deduction. However, income excluded under the
foreign earned income or foreign housing exclusion is not
considered exempt. You must, therefore, apportion deductions to that income.
Interest expense. In most cases, you apportion your interest expense on the basis of your assets. However, certain special rules apply. If you have gross foreign source
income (including income that is excluded under the foreign earned income exclusion) of $5,000 or less, your interest expense can be allocated entirely to U.S. source income.
Business interest. Apportion interest incurred in a
trade or business using the asset method based on your
business assets.
Under the asset method, you apportion the interest expense to your separate limit categories based on the value
of the assets that produced the income. You can value assets at the tax book value or the alternative book value.
For more information about the asset method, see Regulations section 1.861-9T(g).
Investment interest. Apportion this interest on the basis of your investment assets.
Passive activity interest. Apportion interest incurred
in a passive activity on the basis of your passive activity
assets.
Partnership interest. General partners and limited
partners with partnership interests of 10% or more must
classify their distributive shares of partnership interest expense under the three categories listed above. They must
apportion the interest expense according to the rules for
those categories by taking into account their distributive
shares of partnership gross income or pro rata shares of
partnership assets. For special rules that may apply, see
Regulations section 1.861-9(e).
Limited partners with partnership interests of less than
10% must directly allocate their distributive shares of partnership interest expense to their distributive shares of
partnership gross income. They must apportion the interest expense according to their relative distributive shares
of gross foreign source income in each income category
and of U.S. source income from the partnership. For special rules that may apply, see Regulations sections
1.861-9T(e) and 1.861-9(e)(2) and (3). Also, see the Partner’s Instructions for Schedule K-3 (Form 1065) for further
information.
Home mortgage interest. This is your deductible
home mortgage interest, including points from Schedule A
(Form 1040). Apportion it under the gross income method,
taking into account all income (including business, passive activity, and investment income), but excluding income that is exempt under the foreign earned income exclusion. The gross income method is based on a
comparison of the gross income in a separate limit category with total gross income.
The Instructions for Form 1116 have a worksheet for
apportioning your deductible home mortgage interest expense.
Publication 514 (2025)

For this purpose, however, any qualified home (as defined in Pub. 936) that is rented is considered a business
asset for the period in which it is rented. You therefore apportion this interest under the rules for passive activity or
business interest.
Other deductible interest. Apportion other deductible interest, such as deductible student loan interest and
qualified passenger vehicle loan interest, using the asset
method based on all of your assets.
Example. You are operating a business as a sole proprietorship. Your business generates only U.S. source income. Your investment portfolio consists of several
less-than-10% stock investments. You have stocks with an
adjusted basis of $100,000. Some of your stocks (with an
adjusted basis of $40,000) generate U.S. source income.
Your other stocks (with an adjusted basis of $60,000) generate foreign passive income. You own your main home,
which is subject to a mortgage of $120,000. Interest on
this loan is home mortgage interest. You also have a bank
loan in the amount of $40,000. The proceeds from the
bank loan were divided equally between your business
and your investment portfolio. Your gross income from
your business is $50,000. Your investment portfolio generated $4,000 in U.S. source income and $6,000 in foreign
source passive income. All of your debts bear interest at
the annual rate of 10%.
The interest expense for your business is $2,000. It is
apportioned on the basis of the business assets. All of
your business assets generate U.S. source income; therefore, they are U.S. assets. This $2,000 is interest expense
allocable to U.S. source income.
The interest expense for your investments is also
$2,000. It is apportioned on the basis of investment assets. $800 ($40,000/$100,000 × $2,000) of your investment interest is apportioned to U.S. source income and
$1,200 ($60,000/$100,000 × $2,000) is apportioned to foreign source passive income.
Your home mortgage interest expense is $12,000. It is
apportioned on the basis of all your gross income. Your
gross income is $60,000, $54,000 of which is U.S. source
income and $6,000 of which is foreign source passive income. Thus, $1,200 ($6,000/$60,000 × $12,000) of the
home mortgage interest is apportioned to foreign source
passive income.
State income taxes. State income taxes (and certain
taxes measured by taxable income) are definitely related
and allocable to the gross income on which the taxes are
imposed. If state income tax is imposed in part on foreign
source income, the part of your state tax imposed on the
foreign source income is definitely related and allocable to
foreign source income.
Foreign income not exempt from state tax. If the
state does not specifically exempt foreign income from
tax, the following rules apply.

• If the total income taxed by the state is greater than

the amount of U.S. source income for federal tax purposes, then the state tax is allocable to both U.S.
source and foreign source income.

Publication 514 (2025)

• If the total income taxed by the state is less than or

equal to the U.S. source income for federal tax purposes, none of the state tax is allocable to foreign source
income.

Foreign income exempt from state tax. If state law
specifically exempts foreign income from tax, the state
taxes are allocable to the U.S. source income.
Example. Your total income for federal tax purposes,
before deducting state tax, is $100,000. Of this amount,
$25,000 is foreign source income and $75,000 is U.S.
source income. Your total income for state tax purposes is
$90,000, on which you pay state income tax of $6,000.
The state does not specifically exempt foreign source income from tax. The total state income of $90,000 is
greater than the U.S. source income for federal tax purposes. Therefore, the $6,000 is definitely related and allocable to both U.S. and foreign source income.
Assuming that $15,000 ($90,000 − $75,000) is the foreign source income taxed by the state, $1,000 of state income tax is apportioned to foreign source income, figured
as follows.
$15,000
$90,000

×

$6,000

=

$1,000

Deductions not definitely related. You must apportion
to your foreign income in each separate limit category a
fraction of your other deductions that are not definitely related to a specific class of gross income. If you itemize,
these deductions are medical expenses, general sales
taxes, and real estate taxes for your home. If you do not
itemize, this is your standard deduction. You should also
apportion any other deductions that are not definitely related to a specific class of income, including deductions
shown on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), Part II, Adjustments to
Income.
The numerator of the fraction is your gross foreign income in the separate limit category, and the denominator
is your total gross income from all sources. For this purpose, gross income includes income that is excluded under the foreign earned income provisions but does not include any other exempt income.
Itemized deduction limit. The overall limitation on itemized deductions is suspended for tax years beginning after
2017 and before 2026.

Qualified Dividends
Qualified dividends are the amounts you entered on
line 3a of Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. If you have
any qualified dividends, you may be required to make adjustments to the amount of those qualified dividends before you take them into account on line 1a or line 18 of
Form 1116. See Foreign Qualified Dividends and Capital
Gains (Losses) in the Form 1116 instructions to determine
the adjustments you may be required to make before taking foreign qualified dividends into account on line 1a of
Form 1116. See the instructions for line 18 in the Instructions for Form 1116 to determine the adjustments you may
27

Capital Gains and Losses
If you have capital gains (including any capital gain distributions) or capital losses, you may have to make certain
adjustments to those gains or losses before taking them
into account on line 1a (gains), line 5 (losses), or line 18
(taxable income before subtracting exemptions) of Form
1116.
Form 1116, lines 1a and 5. If you have foreign source
capital gains or losses, you may be required to make certain adjustments to those foreign source capital gains or
losses before you take them into account on line 1a or
line 5 of Form 1116. Use the instructions under Foreign
Qualified Dividends and Capital Gains (Losses) in the Instructions for Form 1116 to determine if you are required
to make adjustments. Also, use the instructions under Foreign Qualified Dividends and Capital Gains (Losses) in
the Instructions for Form 1116 to determine if you can use
those instructions to make adjustments or if you must use
the instructions in this publication to make adjustments.
If you use the instructions in this publication, see Adjustments to Foreign Source Capital Gains and Losses below to determine the adjustments you must make.
Form 1116, line 18. If you have U.S. or foreign source
capital gains, you may be required to adjust the amount
you enter on line 18 of Form 1116. Use the instructions for
line 18 in the Instructions for Form 1116 to determine
whether you are required to make an adjustment and to
determine the amount of the adjustment.

Adjustments to Foreign Source Capital
Gains and Losses
You may have to make the following adjustments to your
foreign source capital gains and losses.

• U.S. capital loss adjustment.
• Capital gain rate differential adjustment.
Before you make these adjustments, you must reduce
your net capital gain by the amount of any gain you elected to include in investment income on line 4g of Form
4952. Your net capital gain is the excess of your net
long-term capital gain for the year over any net short-term
capital loss for the year. Foreign source gain you elected
to include on line 4g of Form 4952 must be entered directly on line 1a of Form 1116 without adjustment.
U.S. capital loss adjustment. You must adjust the
amount of your foreign source capital gains to the extent
that your foreign source capital gain exceeds the amount
of your worldwide capital gain (the “U.S. capital loss adjustment”).
Your “foreign source capital gain” is the amount of your
foreign source capital gains in excess of your foreign
source capital losses. If your foreign source capital gains
do not exceed your foreign source capital losses, you do
28

not have a foreign source capital gain and you do not
need to make the U.S. capital loss adjustment. See Capital gain rate differential adjustment, later, for adjustments
you must make to your foreign source capital gains or losses.
Your “worldwide capital gain” is the amount of your
worldwide (U.S. and foreign) capital gains in excess of
your worldwide (U.S. and foreign) capital losses. If your
worldwide capital losses equal or exceed your worldwide
capital gains, your “worldwide capital gain” is zero.
Your U.S. capital loss adjustment is the amount of your
foreign source capital gain in excess of your worldwide
capital gain. (If the amount of your foreign source capital
gain does not exceed the amount of your worldwide capital gain, you do not have a U.S. capital loss adjustment.)
See Capital gain rate differential adjustment, later, for adjustments you must make to your foreign source capital
gains or losses. If you have a U.S. capital loss adjustment,
you must reduce your foreign source capital gains by the
amount of the U.S. capital loss adjustment. To make this
adjustment, you must allocate the total amount of the U.S.
capital loss adjustment among your foreign source capital
gains using the following steps.
Step 1. You must apportion the U.S. capital loss adjustment among your separate categories that have a net
capital gain. A separate category has a net capital gain if
the amount of foreign source capital gains in the separate
category exceeds the amount of foreign source capital
losses in the separate category. You must apportion the
U.S. capital loss adjustment pro rata based on the amount
of net capital gain in each separate category.
Example 1. Alfie has a $300 foreign source capital
gain that is passive category income, a $1,000 foreign
source capital gain that is general category income, a
$400 foreign source capital loss that is general category
income, and a $150 U.S. source capital loss. Alfie figures
the net gains and U.S. capital loss adjustment as follows.
.

be required to make before taking U.S. or foreign qualified
dividends into account on line 18 of Form 1116.

Foreign source capital gain = $900
(($1,000 + $300) − $400)
Worldwide capital gain = $750
(($1,000 + $300) − ($400 + $150))
U.S. capital loss adjustment = $150
($900 − $750)

Alfie must then apportion the U.S. capital loss adjustment
($150) between the passive category income and the general category income based on the amount of net capital
gain in each separate category.
$50 apportioned to passive category income
($150 × $300/$900)

Alfie reduces the $300 net capital gain that is passive category income by $50 and includes the resulting $250 on
line 1a of the Form 1116 for the passive category income.
$100 apportioned to general category income
($150 × $600/$900)

Publication 514 (2025)

Table 4. Rate Groups
IF...

28% rate group

it is included on the 28% Rate Gain Worksheet in the Instructions for
Schedule D.

25% rate group

it is included on lines 1 through 13 of the Unrecaptured Section 1250
Gain Worksheet in the Instructions for Schedule D.
it is a long-term capital gain that is not in the 28% or 25% rate group
and is taxed at a 20% rate or it is a long-term capital loss that is not in
the 28%, 25%, or 15% rate group.
it is a long-term capital gain that is not in the 28% or 25% rate group
and is taxed at a 15% rate or it is a long-term capital loss that is not in
the 28%, 25%, or 20% rate group.
it is a long-term capital gain that is not in the 25% or 28% rate group
and is taxed at a rate of 0%.
it is a short-term capital gain or loss.

20% rate group

15% rate group

0% rate group
short-term rate group

Alfie reduces the $600 of net capital gain that is general
category income by $100 and includes the resulting $500
on line 1a of the Form 1116 for the general category income.

Dennis’ foreign source capital gain is $600.
(($200 + $700 + $100) − ($100 + $300))
Dennis’ worldwide capital gain is $300.
(($200 + $700 + $100) − ($100 + $300 + $300))
Dennis’ U.S. capital loss adjustment is $300.
($600 − $300)

Dennis must apportion the $300 U.S. capital loss adjustment between passive category income and general
category income based on the amount of net capital gain
in each separate category.
Dennis’ net capital gain, passive category income is $200.
(($100 + $200) − $100)
Dennis apportions $100 to passive category income.
($300 × $200/$600)
Dennis’ net capital gain, general category income is $400.
($700 − $300)
Dennis apportions $200 to general category income.
($300 × $400/$600)

Dennis has net capital gain in more than one rate group
that is passive category income. Therefore, the $100 apportioned to passive category income must be further apportioned between the short-term rate group and the 28%
rate group based on the amount of net capital gain in each
rate group.
.

Step 2. If you apportioned any amount of the total U.S.
capital loss adjustment to a separate category with a net
capital gain in more than one rate group, you must further
apportion the U.S. capital loss adjustment among the rate
groups in that separate category (separate category rate
groups) that have a net capital gain.
The rate groups are the 28% rate group, the 25% rate
group, the 20% rate group, the 15% rate group, the 0%
rate group, and the short-term rate group. The 28% rate
group, the 25% rate group, the 20% rate group, the 15%
rate group, and the 0% rate group are “long-term” rate
groups. Table 4 explains the rate groups.
You must apportion the U.S. capital loss adjustment pro
rata based on the amount of net capital gain in each separate category rate group. Your net capital gain in a separate category rate group is the amount of your foreign
source capital gains in that separate category in the rate
group in excess of your foreign source capital losses in
that separate category in the rate group. If your foreign
source capital losses exceed your foreign source capital
gains, you have a net capital loss in the separate category
rate group.

.

A capital gain or loss is in the...

Example 2. Dennis has a $300 U.S. source long-term
capital loss. Dennis also has foreign source capital gains
and losses in the following categories.
Income category

28% rate

15% rate

Short-term

Passive

$200

($100)

$100

General

$700
($300)

Dennis figures the U.S. capital loss adjustment as follows.

Publication 514 (2025)

Dennis apportions $33.33 to the short-term rate group.
($100 × $100/$300)
Dennis apportions $66.67 to the 28% rate group.
($100 × $200/$300)

After the U.S. capital loss adjustment, Dennis has $100
of foreign source 15% capital loss that is passive category
income, $66.67 of foreign source short-term capital gain
that is passive category income, $133.33 of foreign source
28% gain that is passive category income, and $200 of
foreign source 15% capital gain that is general category
income, as shown in the following table.

29

Income
category
Passive

General

28% rate

15% rate

Short-term

$200.00
−66.67
$133.33

($100)

$100.00
–33.33
$66.67

$700.00
(300.00)
−200.00
$200.00

Capital gain rate differential adjustment. After you
have made your U.S. capital loss adjustment, you must
make additional adjustments (capital gain rate differential
adjustments) to your foreign source capital gains and losses.
You must make adjustments to each separate category
rate group that has a net capital gain or loss. See Step 2
under U.S. capital loss adjustment, earlier, for instructions
on how to determine whether you have a net capital gain
or loss in a separate category rate group.
How to make the adjustment. How you make the
capital gain rate differential adjustment depends on
whether you have a net capital gain or net capital loss in a
separate category rate group.
Net capital gain in a separate category rate group.
If you have a net capital gain in a separate category rate
group, you must do the following.
1. First, determine the amount of your net capital gain in
each separate category rate group that must be adjusted.
2. Then, make the capital gain rate differential adjustment. See Capital gain rate differential adjustment for
net capital gains, later.
How to determine the amount of net capital gain
that must be adjusted. You must adjust the net capital
gain in each separate category long-term rate group that
remains after the U.S. capital loss adjustment. You must
adjust the entire amount of that remaining net capital gain
if you do not have a net long-term capital loss from U.S.
sources or you do not have any short-term capital gains. If
you have a net long-term capital loss from U.S. sources
and you have any short-term capital gains, you only need
to adjust a portion of the remaining net capital gain in each
separate category long-term rate group. In that case, the
portion you must adjust is limited to the portion of the remaining net capital gain in the separate category
long-term rate group in excess of the U.S. long-term loss
adjustment amount (if any) allocated to that separate category long-term rate group. You have a net long-term capital loss from U.S. sources if your long-term capital losses
from U.S. sources exceed your long-term capital gains
from U.S. sources.
The U.S. long-term loss adjustment amount is the excess of your net long-term capital loss from U.S. sources
over the amount by which you reduced your long-term
capital gains from foreign sources under U.S. capital loss
adjustment, earlier. If only one separate category
long-term rate group has a net capital gain after the U.S.
capital loss adjustment, your U.S. long-term loss
30

adjustment amount is allocated to that separate category
long-term rate group. If more than one separate category
long-term rate group has a net capital gain after the U.S.
capital loss adjustment, you must allocate the U.S.
long-term loss adjustment amount among the separate
category long-term rate groups pro rata based on the
amount of the remaining net capital gain in each separate
category long-term rate group.
You must adjust the portion of your net capital gain in a
separate category long-term rate group in excess of the
U.S. long-term loss adjustment amount you allocated to
that separate category long-term rate group. See Capital
gain rate differential adjustment for net capital gains, later.
The remaining portion of your net capital gain in the separate category long-term rate group must be entered on
line 1a of Form 1116 without adjustment.
Example 3. Mary has a $200 15% capital loss from
U.S. sources, a $50 15% capital gain from U.S. sources,
and a $200 short-term capital gain from U.S. sources.
Mary also has a $300 28% capital gain and a $150 15%
capital gain from foreign sources that are passive category income.
Mary does not have a U.S. capital loss adjustment because the foreign source capital gain ($450) does not exceed the worldwide capital gain ($500).
Mary’s net long-term capital loss from U.S. sources is
$150 ($200 − $50). The U.S. long-term loss adjustment
amount is $150 ($150 − $0). Mary allocates the $150 between the 28% rate group and the 15% rate group as follows.
Mary allocates $100 ($150 x $300/$450) to the 28%
rate group that is passive category income. Therefore,
$200 ($300 − $100) of the $300 28% capital gain must be
adjusted before it is included on line 1a. The remaining
$100 of 28% capital gain is included on line 1a without adjustment.
Mary allocates $50 ($150 x $150/$450) to the 15% rate
group that is passive category income. Therefore, only
$100 ($150 − $50) of the $150 15% capital gain must be
adjusted before it is included on line 1a. The remaining
$50 of 15% capital gain is included on line 1a without adjustment.
Capital gain rate differential adjustment for net
capital gains. Adjust your net capital gain (or the applicable portion of your net capital gain) in each separate
category long-term rate group as follows.

• For each separate category that has a net capital gain
in the 0% rate group, do not include the applicable
amount on Form 1116.

• For each separate category that has a net capital gain
in the 15% rate group, multiply the applicable amount
of the net capital gain by 0.4054.

• For each separate category that has a net capital gain
in the 20% rate group, multiply the applicable amount
of the net capital gain by 0.5405.

• For each separate category that has a net capital gain
in the 25% rate group, multiply the applicable amount
of the net capital gain by 0.6757.

Publication 514 (2025)

• For each separate category that has a net capital gain
in the 28% rate group, multiply the applicable amount
of the foreign source net capital gain by 0.7568.

Add each result to any net capital gain in the same
long-term separate category rate group that you were not
required to adjust and include the combined amounts on
line 1a of the applicable Form 1116.
No adjustment is required if you have a net capital gain
in a short-term rate group. Include the amount of net capital gain in any short-term rate group on line 1a of the applicable Form 1116 without adjustment.
Example 4. Beth has $200 of capital gains in the 28%
rate group that are general category income and no other
items of capital gain or loss. Beth must adjust the capital
gain before it is included on line 1a as follows.
$200 × 0.7568 = $151.36

Dennis allocates $20 ($33.33 × $200 ÷ $333.33) to the
15% rate group for general category income. Therefore,
Dennis must adjust $180 ($200 − $20) of the $200 net
capital gain remaining in the 15% rate group that is general category income. Dennis includes $92.97 (($180 ×
0.4054) + $20) of 15% capital gain on line 1a of Form
1116 for general category income.
Net capital loss in a separate category rate group.
If you have a net capital loss in a separate category rate
group, you must do the following.
1. First, determine the rate group of the capital gain offset by that net capital loss. See How to determine the
rate group of the capital gain offset by the net capital
loss next.
2. Then, make the capital gain rate differential adjustment. See Capital gain rate differential adjustment for
net capital loss, later.

Mary includes $251.36 of the 28% capital gain.
($200 × 0.7568) + $100

How to determine the rate group of the capital
gain offset by the net capital loss. Use the following
ordering rules to determine the rate group of the capital
gain offset by the net capital loss.
Determinations under the following ordering rules are
made after you have taken into account any U.S. capital
loss adjustment. However, determinations under the following ordering rules do not take into account any capital
gain rate differential adjustments that you made to any net
capital gain in a separate category rate group.

Mary includes $90.54 of the 15% capital gain.
($100 × 0.4054) + $50

Step 1. Net capital losses from each separate category rate group are netted against net capital gains in the
same rate group in other separate categories.

Beth includes $151.36 of capital gain on line 1a of Form
1116 for the general category income.
Example 5. The facts are the same as in Example 3,
earlier. Mary includes the following amounts of passive
category income on line 1a of Form 1116 for passive category income.

Example 6. The facts are the same as in Example 2,
earlier. After making the U.S. capital loss adjustment, Dennis has the following.
Income
category

28% rate

15% rate

Short-term

Passive

$133.33

($100)

$66.67

General

$200

Dennis now determines the amount of the remaining net
capital gain in each separate category long-term rate
group that must be adjusted.
Dennis’ net long-term capital loss from U.S. sources is
$300. The U.S. long-term loss adjustment amount is
$33.33 ($300 − $266.67). Dennis must allocate this
amount between the $133.33 of net capital gain remaining
in the 28% rate group that is passive category income and
the $200 of net capital gain remaining in the 15% rate
group that is general category income.
Dennis allocates $13.33 ($33.33 × $133.33 ÷ $333.33)
of the U.S. long-term loss adjustment to passive category
income in the 28% rate group. Therefore, Dennis must adjust $120 ($133.33 − $13.33) of the $133.33 net capital
gain remaining in the 28% rate group that is passive category income. Dennis includes $104.15 (($120 × 0.7568) +
$13.33) of 28% capital gain and $66.67 of short-term capital gain on line 1a of Form 1116 for passive category income.
Publication 514 (2025)

Step 2. U.S. source capital losses are netted against
U.S. source capital gains in the same rate group.
Step 3. Net capital losses from each separate category rate group in excess of the amount netted against foreign source net capital gains in Step 1 are netted against
your remaining foreign source net capital gains and your
U.S. source net capital gains as follows.
1. First, against U.S. source net capital gains in the
same rate group.
2. Next, against net capital gains in other rate groups
(without regard to whether such net capital gains are
U.S. or foreign source net capital gains) as follows.
a. A foreign source net capital loss in the short-term
rate group is first netted against any net capital
gain in the 28% rate group, then against any net
capital gain in the 25% rate group, then against
any net capital gain in the 20% rate group, then
against any net capital gain in the 15% rate group,
and finally to offset capital gain net income in the
0% rate group.
b. A foreign source net capital loss in the 28% rate
group is netted first against any net capital gain in
the 25% rate group, then against any net capital
gain in the 20% rate group, then against any net
capital gain in the 15% rate group, and finally to
31

offset capital gain net income in the 0% rate
group.
c. A foreign source net capital loss in the 20% rate
group is netted first against any net capital gain in
the 15% rate group, then against any net capital
gain in the 0% rate group, then against any net
capital gain in the 28% rate group, and finally to
offset net capital gain in the 25% rate group.
d. A foreign source net capital loss in the 15% rate
group is netted first against any net capital gain in
the 0% rate group, then against any net capital
gain in the 28% rate group, and finally against any
net capital gain in the 25% rate group.
The net capital losses in any separate category rate group
are treated as coming pro rata from each separate category that contains a net capital loss in that rate group to
the extent netted against:

This loss is netted against the $200 foreign source 15%
capital gain that is general category income according to
Step 1.
Dennis includes $40.54 of the capital loss on line 5 of
the Form 1116 for general category income.
($100 × 0.4054)

Example 8. Dawn has a $20 net capital loss in the
15% rate group that is passive category income, a $40 net
capital loss in the 15% rate group that is general category
income, a $50 U.S. source net capital gain in the 15% rate
group, and a $50 net capital gain in the 28% rate group
that is passive category income, as shown in the following
table.
Income category
Foreign
passive

28% rate

15% rate

$50

($20)

• Net capital gains in any other separate category under

Foreign
general

($40)

• Any U.S. source net capital gain under Step 3(1), or
• Net capital gains in any other rate group under Step

U.S. source

$50

Step 1,

3(2).

Capital gain rate differential adjustment for net
capital loss. After you have determined the rate group of
the capital gain offset by the net capital loss, you make the
capital gain rate differential adjustment by doing the following.

• To the extent a net capital loss in a separate category
rate group offsets capital gain in the 0% rate group,
multiply the net capital loss by zero.

• To the extent a net capital loss in a separate category
rate group offsets capital gain in the 15% rate group,
multiply that amount of the net capital loss by 0.4054.

• To the extent a net capital loss in a separate category
rate group offsets capital gain in the 20% rate group,
multiply that amount of the net capital loss by 0.5405.

• To the extent that a net capital loss in a separate category rate group offsets capital gain in the 25% rate
group, multiply that amount of the net capital loss by
0.6757.

• To the extent that a net capital loss in a separate category rate group offsets capital gain in the 28% rate
group, multiply that amount of the net capital loss by
0.7568.

Include the results on line 5 of the applicable Form 1116.
No adjustment is required to the extent a net capital
loss offsets short-term capital gain. Thus, a net capital
loss is included on line 5 of the applicable Form 1116 without adjustment to the extent the net capital loss offsets net
capital gain in the short-term rate group.
Example 7. The facts are the same as in Example 2,
earlier. Dennis has a $100 foreign source 15% capital loss
that is passive category income.

32

Of the total $60 of foreign source net capital losses in the
15% rate group, $50 is treated as offsetting the $50 U.S.
source net capital gain in the 15% rate group. (See Step
3(1).)
$16.67 of the $50 is treated as coming from passive category income.
($50 × $20/$60)
$33.33 of the $50 is treated as coming from general category income.
($50 × $40/$60)

The remaining $10 of foreign source net capital losses in
the 15% rate group is treated as offsetting net capital gain
in the 28% rate group. (See Step 3(2c).)
$3.33 is treated as coming from passive category income.
($10 × $20/$60)
$6.67 is treated as coming from general category income.
($10 × $40/$60)

Dawn includes $9.28 of the capital loss in the amount entered on line 5 of Form 1116 for passive category income.
This is $6.76
($16.67 × 0.4054)
plus $2.52
($3.33 × 0.7568)

Dawn includes $18.56 of capital loss in the amount entered on line 5 of Form 1116 for general category income.
This is $13.51
($33.33 × 0.4054)
plus $5.05
($6.67 × 0.7568)

Dawn also includes $37.84 ($50 × 0.7568) of capital gain
in the amount entered on line 1a of Form 1116 for passive
category income.

Allocation of Foreign and U.S. Losses
You must allocate foreign losses for any tax year and U.S.
losses for any tax year (to the extent such losses do not
exceed the separate limitation incomes for such year)
among incomes on a proportionate basis.
Publication 514 (2025)

Foreign Losses
If you have a foreign loss when figuring your taxable income in a separate limit income category, and you have
income in one or more of the other separate categories,
you must first reduce the income in these other categories
by the loss before reducing income from U.S. sources.
Note: The amount of your taxable income (or loss) in a
separate category is determined after any adjustments
you make to your foreign source qualified dividends or
your foreign source capital gains (losses). See Qualified
Dividends and Adjustments to Foreign Source Capital
Gains and Losses, earlier, under Capital Gains and Losses.
Example. You have $10,000 of passive category income and incur a loss of $5,000 of general category income. You must use the $5,000 loss to offset $5,000 of
passive category income.
How to allocate. You must allocate foreign losses among
the separate limit income categories in the same proportion as each category’s income bears to total foreign income.
Example. You have a $2,000 loss that is general category income, $3,000 of passive category income, and
$2,000 of income re-sourced by treaty. You must allocate
the $2,000 loss to the income in the other separate categories. 60% ($3,000/$5,000) of the $2,000 loss (or
$1,200) reduces passive category income and 40%
($2,000/$5,000) (or $800) reduces the income re-sourced
by treaty.
Loss more than foreign income. If you have a loss
remaining after reducing the income in other separate limit
categories, use the remaining loss to reduce U.S. source
income. For this purpose, the amount of your U.S. source
income is your taxable income from U.S. sources increased by the amount of capital losses from U.S. sources
that reduced foreign source capital gains as part of a U.S.
capital loss adjustment. See U.S. capital loss adjustment,
earlier, under Adjustments to Foreign Source Capital
Gains and Losses. When you use a foreign loss to offset
U.S. source income, you must recapture the loss as explained later under Recapture of Prior-Year Overall Foreign Loss Accounts.

U.S. Losses
You should allocate any net loss from sources in the United States among the different categories of foreign income after allocating all foreign losses as described earlier, and before any of the adjustments discussed later.
The amount of your net loss from sources in the United
States is equal to the excess of (1) your foreign source
taxable income in all of your separate categories in the aggregate, after taking into account any adjustments under
Qualified Dividends and Adjustments to Foreign Source
Capital Gains and Losses, earlier; over (2) the amount
Publication 514 (2025)

computed for purposes of line 18 of Form 1116 (this
amount may be a loss).

Recapture of Prior-Year Overall Foreign
Loss Accounts
If you have only losses in your separate limit categories, or
if you have a loss remaining after allocating your foreign
losses to other separate categories, you have an overall
foreign loss. If you use this loss to offset U.S. source income (resulting in a reduction of your U.S. tax liability),
you must recapture your loss in each succeeding year in
which you have taxable income from foreign sources in
the same separate limit category. You must recapture the
overall loss regardless of whether you chose to claim the
foreign tax credit for the loss year.
You recapture the loss by treating part of your taxable
income from foreign sources in a later year as U.S. source
income. In addition, if, in a later year, you sell or otherwise
dispose of property used in your foreign trade or business,
you may have to recognize gain and treat it as U.S. source
income, even if the disposition would otherwise be nontaxable. See Dispositions, later. The amount you treat as
U.S. source income reduces the foreign source income
and therefore reduces the foreign tax credit limit.
You must establish separate accounts for each type of
foreign loss that you sustain. The balances in these accounts are the overall foreign loss subject to recapture.
Reduce these balances at the end of each tax year by the
loss that you recaptured. You must attach a statement to
your Form 1116 to report the balances (if any) in your
overall foreign loss accounts.
Overall foreign loss. You have an overall foreign loss if
your gross income from foreign sources for a tax year is
less than the sum of your expenses, losses, or other deductions that you allocated and apportioned to foreign income under the rules explained earlier under Determining
Taxable Income From Sources Outside the United States.
But see Losses not considered, later, for exceptions.
Example. You are single and have gross dividend income of $75,000 from U.S. sources. You also have a
greater-than-10% interest in a foreign partnership in which
you materially participate. The partnership has a loss for
the year, and your distributive share of the loss is $15,000.
Your share of the partnership’s gross income is $220,000,
and your share of its expenses is $235,000. Your only foreign source income is your share of partnership income,
which is foreign branch category income. You are a bona
fide resident of a foreign country and you elect to exclude
your foreign earned income. You exclude the maximum
$130,000. You also have itemized deductions of $34,000
that are not definitely related to any item of income.
In figuring your overall foreign loss for foreign branch
category income for the year, you must allocate a ratable
part of the $34,000 in itemized deductions to the foreign
source income. You figure the ratable part of the $34,000
that is for foreign source income, based on gross income,
as follows.
33

.

$220,000 (Foreign gross income)
×
$295,000 (Total gross income)

$34,000

= $25,356

Therefore, your overall foreign loss for the year is
$31,492 figured as follows.
Foreign gross income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Less:
Foreign earned income
exclusion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$130,000
Allowable definitely
related expenses
[($90,000/$220,000) ×
$235,000] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
96,136
Ratable part of itemized
25,356
deductions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Overall foreign loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$220,000

251,492
$

31,492

Losses not considered. You do not consider the following in figuring an overall foreign loss in a given year.

• Net operating loss deduction.
• Foreign expropriation loss not compensated by insurance or other reimbursement.

• Casualty or theft loss not compensated by insurance
or other reimbursement.

Recapture provision. If you have an overall foreign loss
for any tax year and use the loss to offset U.S. source income, part of your foreign source taxable income (in the
same separate limit category as the loss) for each succeeding year is treated as U.S. source taxable income.
The part that is treated as U.S. source taxable income is
the smaller of the following.
1. The total amount of maximum potential recapture in
all overall foreign loss accounts. The maximum potential recapture in any account for a category is the
lesser of:
a. The current year taxable income from foreign
sources in that category (the amount from Form
1116, line 15, less any adjustment for allocation of
foreign losses and U.S. losses for that category,
discussed earlier); or
b. The balance in the overall foreign loss account for
that category.

Example. During 2024 and 2025, you were single and
a 20% general partner in a partnership that derived its income from Country X. You also received dividend income
from U.S. sources during those years.
For 2024, the partnership had a loss and your share
was $20,000, consisting of $225,000 gross income less
$245,000 expenses. Your net loss from the partnership
was $8,756, after deducting the foreign earned income exclusion and definitely related allowable expenses. This
loss is related to foreign branch category income. Your
U.S. dividend income was $20,000. Your itemized deductions totaled $30,000 and were not definitely related to
any item of income. In figuring your taxable income for
2024, you deducted your share of the partnership loss
from Country X from your U.S. source income.
During 2025, the partnership had net income from
Country X. Your share of the net income was $140,000,
consisting of $200,000 gross income less $60,000 expenses. Your net income from the partnership was $49,000 after deducting the foreign earned income exclusion and the
definitely related allowable expenses. This is foreign
branch category income. You also received dividend income of $20,000 from U.S. sources. Your itemized deductions were $30,000, which are not definitely related to any
item of income. You paid income taxes of $14,000 to
Country X on your share of the partnership income.
When figuring your foreign tax credit for 2025, you must
find the foreign source taxable income that you must treat
as U.S. source income because of the foreign loss recapture provisions.
You figure the foreign taxable income that you must recharacterize as follows.
A. Determination of 2024 Overall Foreign Loss
1) Partnership loss from Country X . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$8,756

2) Add: Part of itemized deductions
allocable to gross income from
Country X
$225,000
$245,000

×

$30,000

=

3) Overall foreign loss for 2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$27,551
$36,307

2. 50% (or more, if you choose) of your total taxable income from foreign sources.
If the total foreign income subject to recharacterization is
the amount described in (1) above, then for each separate
category the recapture amount is the maximum potential
recapture amount for that category. If the total foreign income subject to recharacterization is the amount described in (2) above, then for each separate category the recapture amount is figured by multiplying the total
recapture amount by the following fraction.
Maximum potential recapture amount for the overall foreign
loss account in the separate category
Total amount of maximum potential recapture in all overall
foreign loss accounts

34

Publication 514 (2025)

• The remaining amount of the overall foreign loss not

B.

Amount of Recapture for 2025

1)

Balance for foreign branch category
income foreign loss account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2)

Taxable foreign branch category income after
allocation of foreign losses—Foreign branch
category income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$49,000

Less: Itemized deductions
allocable to that income
[($200,000/$220,000)
× $30,000] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

27,273

$36,307

Foreign branch category taxable
income less allocated
foreign losses ($21,727 − 0) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$21,727

3)

Total amount of maximum potential recapture in
all foreign loss accounts (smaller of (1) or
(2)) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$21,727

4)

Foreign source net income . . . . . . . . . . .

$49,000

Less: Itemized deductions
allocable to foreign source
net income [($200,000/
$220,000) × $30,000] . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

27,273

$21,727

5)

50% of foreign source taxable income subject to
recharacterization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$10,864

6)

Recapture for 2025 (smaller of (3) or (5)) . . . . . . . . . .

$10,864

The amount of the recapture is shown on Form 1116,
line 16.
Recapturing more overall foreign loss than required. If you want to make an election or change a prior
election to recapture a greater part of the balance of an
overall foreign loss account than is required (as discussed
earlier), you must attach a statement to your Form 1116. If
you change a prior year’s election, you should file Form
1040-X.
The statement you attach to Form 1116 must show:

• The percentage and amount of your foreign taxable income that you are treating as U.S. source income, and

• The percentage and amount of the balance (both be-

fore and after the recapture) in the overall foreign loss
account that you are recapturing.

Deduction for foreign taxes. You must recapture part
(or all, if applicable) of an overall foreign loss in tax years
in which you deduct, rather than credit, your foreign taxes.
You recapture the lesser of:

• The balance in the applicable overall foreign loss account, or

• The foreign source taxable income of the same separate limit category that resulted in the overall foreign
loss minus the foreign taxes imposed on that income.

Dispositions. If you dispose of appreciated trade or business property used predominantly outside the United
States, and that property generates foreign source taxable
income of the same separate limit category that resulted
in an overall foreign loss, the disposition is subject to the
recapture rules. In most cases, you are considered to recognize foreign source taxable income in the same separate limit category as the overall foreign loss to the extent
of the lesser of:

• The FMV of the property that is more than your adjus-

recaptured in prior years or in the current year as described earlier under Recapture provision and Recapturing more overall foreign loss than required.

This rule applies to a disposition whether or not you actually recognized gain on the disposition and irrespective
of the source (U.S. or foreign) of any gain recognized on
the disposition.
In most cases, this rule also applies to a gain on the
disposition of stock in a CFC if you owned more than 50%
(by vote or value) of the stock right before you disposed of
it. See Internal Revenue Code section 904(f)(3)(D) for
more information.
All of the foreign source taxable income that you are
considered to recognize under these rules is subject to recharacterization as U.S. source income in most cases.
See Regulations section 1.904(f)-2(d).
If you actually recognized foreign source gain in the
same separate limit category as the overall foreign loss on
a disposition of property described earlier, you must reduce the foreign source taxable income in that separate
limit category by the amount of gain you are required to recharacterize. If you recognized foreign source gain in a different separate limit category than the overall foreign loss
on a disposition of property described earlier, you are required to reduce your foreign source taxable income in
that separate limit category for gain that is considered foreign source taxable income in the overall foreign loss category and subject to recharacterization. If you did not otherwise recognize gain on a disposition of property
described earlier, you must include in your U.S. source income the foreign source taxable income you are required
to recognize and recharacterize.
Predominant use outside United States. Property is
used predominantly outside the United States if it was located outside the United States more than 50% of the
time during the 3-year period ending on the date of disposition. If you used the property fewer than 3 years, count
the use during the period it was used in a trade or business.
Disposition defined. A disposition includes the following transactions.

• A sale, exchange, distribution, or gift of property.
• A transfer upon the foreclosure of a security interest

(but not a mere transfer of title to a creditor or debtor
upon creation or termination of a security interest).

• An involuntary conversion.
• A contribution to a partnership, trust, or corporation.
• A transfer at death.
• Any other transfer of property whether or not gain or
loss is normally recognized on the transfer.

The character of the income (for example, as ordinary income or capital gain) recognized solely because of the
disposition rules is the same as if you had sold or exchanged the property.

ted basis in the property, or

Publication 514 (2025)

35

However, a disposition does not include either of the
following.

• A disposition of property that is not a material factor in
producing income. (This exception does not apply to
the disposition of stock in a CFC to which Internal
Revenue Code section 904(f)(3)(D) applies.)

• A transaction in which gross income is not realized.
Basis adjustment. If gain is recognized on a disposition solely because of an overall foreign loss account balance at the time of the disposition, the recipient of the
property must increase its basis by the amount of gain
deemed recognized. If the property was transferred by gift,
its basis in the hands of the donor immediately prior to the
gift is increased by the amount of gain deemed recognized.

Recapture of Separate Limitation Loss
Accounts
If, in a prior tax year, you reduced your foreign taxable income in the separate limit category by a pro rata share of
a loss from another category, you must recharacterize in
2025 all or part of any income you receive in 2025 in that
loss category. If you have separate limitation loss accounts in the loss category relating to more than one other
category and the total balances in those loss accounts exceed the income you receive in 2025 in the loss category,
then income in the loss category is recharacterized as income in those other categories in proportion to the balances of the separate limitation loss accounts for those other
categories. You recharacterize the income by:

• Increasing foreign taxable income (adjusted by any of
the other adjustments previously mentioned) for each
of the separate categories (other than the loss category) previously reduced by any separate limitation
loss, and

• Decreasing foreign taxable income (adjusted by any of
the other adjustments previously mentioned) for the
loss category by the amount of recharacterized income.

Example. In 2024, you had a $2,000 loss that was
general category income, $3,000 of passive category income, and $2,000 of income re-sourced by treaty. You had
to allocate the $2,000 loss to the income in the other separate categories. 60% ($3,000 ÷ $5,000) of the $2,000
loss (or $1,200) reduced passive category income and
40% ($2,000 ÷ $5,000) (or $800) reduced the income
re-sourced by treaty.
In 2025, you have $4,000 of passive category income,
$1,000 of income re-sourced by treaty, and $5,000 of general category income. Because $1,200 of the general category loss was used to reduce your passive category income in 2024, $1,200 of the 2025 general category
income of $5,000 must be recharacterized as passive category income. This makes the 2025 total passive category
income $5,200 ($4,000 + $1,200). Similarly, because
$800 of the general category loss was used to reduce
your income re-sourced by treaty, $800 of the general
36

category income must be recharacterized as income
re-sourced by treaty. This makes the 2025 total of income
re-sourced by treaty $1,800 ($1,000 + $800). The total
general category income is $3,000 ($5,000 − $1,200 −
$800).
Caution: If you dispose of appreciated property that generates, or would generate, gain in a separate limitation
loss account, the disposition is subject to recapture rules
similar to those applicable to overall foreign loss accounts.
See Internal Revenue Code section 904(f)(5)(F).

Recapture of Overall Domestic Loss
Accounts
If you have an overall domestic loss for any tax year beginning after 2006, you create, or increase the balance in, an
overall domestic loss account and you must recharacterize a portion of your U.S. source taxable income as foreign
source taxable income in succeeding years for purposes
of the foreign tax credit.
The part that is treated as foreign source taxable income for the tax year is the smaller of:

• The total balance in your overall domestic loss ac-

count in each separate category (less amounts recaptured in earlier years), or

• 50% of your U.S. source taxable income for the tax
year.

Caution: Internal Revenue Code section 904(g)(5) allows
for an election to recapture up to 100% of an unused
pre-2018 overall domestic loss from a prior year, as opposed to the 50% stated in the previous paragraph. This
election is applicable for any tax year beginning after 2017
and before 2028.
You must establish and maintain separate overall domestic loss accounts for each separate category in which
foreign source income is offset by the domestic loss. The
balance in each overall domestic loss account is the
amount of the overall domestic loss subject to recapture.
The recharacterized income is allocated among and increases foreign source income in separate categories in
proportion to the balances of the overall domestic loss accounts for those separate categories.
For more information, see the Instructions for Form
1116.

Tax Treaties
The United States is a party to tax treaties that are designed, in part, to mitigate double taxation of the same income by the United States and the treaty country. Many
treaties do this by allowing you to treat certain items of
U.S. source income as foreign source income. Certain
treaties have special rules you must consider when figuring your foreign tax credit if you are a U.S. citizen residing
in the treaty country. These rules generally limit the
amount of U.S. source income that is treated as foreign
Publication 514 (2025)

source income. The treaties that provide for this type of restriction include those with Australia, Austria, Bangladesh,
Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands,
New Zealand, Portugal, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia,
South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United
Kingdom. There is a worksheet near the end of this publication to help you figure the additional credit that is allowed by reason of these limited re-sourcing rules. But do
not use this worksheet to figure the additional credit under
the treaties with Australia and New Zealand. In addition,
the worksheet only applies for tax years beginning on or
before August 10, 2010, and tax years after the 2017 tax
year.

The 1-year carryback and 10-year carryover do not apply to unused taxes in the section 951A category.
Use Schedule B (Form 1116) to reconcile your
prior-year foreign tax carryover with your current-year foreign tax carryover. See Schedule B (Form 1116) and its
instructions for more information.
The mechanics of the carryback and carryover are illustrated by the following examples.
Example 1. All of your foreign income is general category income for 2024 and 2025. The limit on your credit
and the qualified foreign taxes paid on the income are as
follows.
Your
limit

Tax
paid

Unused foreign tax (+)
or excess limit (−)

2024

$200

$100

−100

2025

$300

$500

+200

You can get more information by writing to:
Internal Revenue Service
International Section
Philadelphia, PA 19255-0725
Report required. You may have to report certain information with your return if you claim a foreign tax credit under
a treaty provision. For example, if a treaty provision allows
you to take a foreign tax credit for a specific tax that is not
allowed by the Internal Revenue Code, you must report
this information with your return. To report the necessary
information, use Form 8833, Treaty-Based Return Position
Disclosure Under Section 6114 or 7701(b). See the instructions for Form 8833, and Regulations section
301.6114-1 for more information.
If you do not report this information, you may have to
pay a penalty of $1,000.
Tip: You do not have to file Form 8833 if you are claiming
the additional foreign tax credit that is allowed by reason
of the limited re-sourcing rules discussed previously. See
Regulations section 301.6114-1(c) for more information.

In 2025, you had unused foreign tax of $200 to carry to
other years. You are considered to have paid this unused
foreign tax first in 2024 (the first preceding tax year) up to
the excess limit in that year of $100. You can then carry
forward the remaining $100 of unused tax.
Example 2. All your foreign income is general category income for 2021 through 2026. In 2021, you had an
unused foreign tax of $200. Because you had no foreign
income in 2020, you cannot carry back the unused foreign
tax to that year. However, you may be able to carry forward the unused tax to the next 10 years. The limit on your
credit and the qualified foreign taxes paid on general category income for 2021 through 2026 are as follows.
Your
limit

Tax
paid

Unused foreign tax (+)
or excess limit (−)

2021

$600

$800

+200

Carryback and Carryover

2022

$600

$700

+100

2023

$500

$700

+200

If, because of the limit on the credit, you cannot use the
full amount of qualified foreign taxes paid or accrued in the
tax year, you are allowed a 1-year carryback and then a
10-year carryover of the unused foreign taxes.

2024

$550

$400

−150

2025

$800

$700

−100

2026

$500

$550

+ 50

This means that you can treat the unused foreign tax of
a tax year as though the tax were paid or accrued in your
first preceding and 10 succeeding tax years up to the
amount of any excess limit in those years. A period of less
than 12 months for which you make a return is considered
a tax year.
The unused foreign tax in each category is the amount
by which the qualified taxes paid or accrued are more than
the limit for that category. The excess limit in each category is the amount by which the limit is more than the
qualified taxes paid or accrued for that category.
Figure your carrybacks or carryovers separately for
each separate limit income category.
Publication 514 (2025)

You cannot carry the $200 of unused foreign tax from
2021 to 2022 or 2023 because you have no excess limit in
any of those years. Therefore, you carry the tax forward to
2024, up to the excess limit of $150. The carryover reduces your excess limit in that year to zero. The remaining
unused foreign tax of $50 from 2021 can be carried to
2025. At this point, you have fully absorbed the unused
foreign tax from 2021 and can carry it no further. You can
also carry forward the unused foreign tax from 2022 and
2023.
Special rules for carryforwards of pre-2018 unused
foreign taxes. Unused foreign taxes in the pre-2018 separate category for general income carried forward are
generally allocated to your post-2017 separate category
37

for general income. Alternatively, you can allocate those
foreign taxes to the post-2017 separate category for foreign branch category income to the extent the unused foreign taxes would have been allocated to your post-2017
separate category for foreign branch category income,
and would have been unused foreign taxes with respect to
that separate category, if that separate category had applied in the year or years the unused foreign taxes arose.
A simplified safe harbor is also available for determining
the portion of the unused foreign taxes that may be allocated to the post-2017 separate category for foreign branch
category income. See Regulations section 1.904-2(j)(1)
(iii) for further details.
Effect of bankruptcy or insolvency. If your debts are
canceled because of bankruptcy or insolvency, you may
have to reduce your unused foreign tax carryovers to or
from the tax year of the debt cancellation by 331/3 cents for
each $1 of canceled debt that you exclude from your
gross income. Your bankruptcy estate may have to make
this reduction if it has acquired your unused foreign tax
carryovers. Also, you may not be allowed to carry back
any unused foreign tax to a year before the year in which
the bankruptcy case began. For more information, see Reduction of Tax Attributes in Pub. 908.
Note: No foreign tax carryovers are allowed for foreign
taxes paid or accrued on section 951A category income.
Leave line 10 of Form 1116 blank if you complete a Form
1116 for section 951A category income, as carrybacks
and carryovers are not allowed for this category of income.

Time Limit on Tax Assessment
When you carry back an unused foreign tax, the IRS is
given additional time to assess any tax resulting from the
carryback. An assessment can be made up to the end of 1
year after the expiration of the statutory period for an assessment relating to the year in which the carryback originated.

Claim for Refund
If you have an unused foreign tax that you are carrying
back to the first preceding tax year, you should file Form
1040-X for that tax year and attach a revised Form 1116.

Taxes All Credited or All Deducted
In a given year, you must either claim a credit for all foreign
taxes that qualify for the credit or claim a deduction for all
of them. This rule is applied with the carryback and carryover procedure, as follows.

• You cannot claim a credit carryback or carryover from
a year in which you deducted qualified foreign taxes.

• You cannot deduct unused foreign taxes in any year to
which you carry them, even if you deduct qualified foreign taxes actually paid in that year.

38

• You cannot claim a credit for unused foreign taxes in a
year to which you carry them unless you also claim a
credit for foreign taxes actually paid or accrued in that
year.

• You cannot carry back or carry over any unused for-

eign taxes to or from a year for which you elect not to
be subject to the foreign tax credit limit. See Exemption from foreign tax credit limit under How To Figure
the Credit, earlier.

Unused taxes carried to deduction year. If you carry
unused foreign taxes to a year in which you chose to deduct qualified foreign taxes, you must compute a foreign
tax credit limit for the deduction year as if you had chosen
to credit foreign taxes for that year. If the credit computation results in an excess limit (as defined earlier) for the
deduction year, you must treat the unused foreign taxes
carried to the deduction year as absorbed in that year. You
cannot actually deduct or claim a credit for the unused foreign taxes carried to the deduction year. But this treatment
reduces the amount of unused foreign taxes that you can
carry to another year.
Because you cannot deduct or claim a credit for unused foreign taxes treated as absorbed in a deduction
year, you will get no tax benefit for them unless you file an
amended return to change your choice from deducting the
taxes to claiming the credit. You have 10 years from the
regular due date of the return for the deduction year to
make this change. See Making or Changing Your Choice
under Choosing To Take Credit or Deduction, earlier.
Example. In 2025, you paid foreign taxes of $600 on
general category income. You have a foreign tax credit
carryover of $200 from the same category from 2024. For
2025, your foreign tax credit limit is $700.
If you choose to claim a credit for your foreign taxes in
2025, you would be allowed a credit of $700, consisting of
$600 paid in 2025 and $100 of the $200 carried over from
2024. You will have a credit carryover to 2026 of $100,
which is your unused 2024 foreign tax credit carryover.
If you choose to deduct your foreign taxes in 2025, your
deduction will be limited to $600, which is the amount of
taxes paid in 2025. You are not allowed a deduction for
any part of the carryover from 2024. However, you must
treat $100 of the credit carryover as used in 2025, because you have an unused credit limit of $100 ($700 limit
minus $600 of foreign taxes paid in 2025). This reduces
your carryover to later years.
If you claimed the deduction for 2025 and later decided
you wanted to receive a benefit for that $100 part of the
2024 carryover, you could change the choice of a deduction for 2025. You would have to claim a credit for those
taxes by filing an amended return for 2025 within the time
allowed.

Married Couples
For a tax year in which you and your spouse file a joint return, you must figure the unused foreign tax or excess limit
in each separate limit category on the basis of your combined income, deductions, taxes, and credits.
Publication 514 (2025)

For a tax year in which you and your spouse file separate returns, you figure the unused foreign tax or excess
limit by using only your own separate income, deductions,
taxes, and credits. However, if you file a joint return for any
other year involved in figuring a carryback or carryover of
unused foreign tax to the current tax year, you will need to
make an allocation, as explained under Allocations Between Spouses, later.
Continuous use of joint return. If you and your spouse
file a joint return for the current tax year, and file joint returns for each of the other tax years involved in figuring the
carryback or carryover of unused foreign tax to the current
tax year, you figure the joint carryback or carryover to the
current tax year using the joint unused foreign tax and the
joint excess limits.
Joint and separate returns in different years. If you
and your spouse file a joint return for the current tax year,
but file separate returns for all the other tax years involved
in figuring the carryback or carryover of the unused foreign
tax to the current tax year, your separate carrybacks or
carryovers will be a joint carryback or carryover to the current tax year.
In other cases in which you and your spouse file joint
returns for some years and separate returns for other
years, you must make the allocation described under Allocations Between Spouses next.

Allocations Between Spouses
You may have to allocate an unused foreign tax or excess
limit for a tax year in which you and your spouse filed a
joint return. This allocation is needed in the following three
situations.
1. You and your spouse file separate returns for the current tax year, to which you carry an unused foreign tax
from a tax year for which you and your spouse filed a
joint return.
2. You and your spouse file separate returns for the current tax year, to which you carry an unused foreign tax
from a tax year for which you and your spouse filed
separate returns, but through a tax year for which you
and your spouse filed a joint return.
3. You and your spouse file a joint return for the current
tax year, to which you carry an unused foreign tax
from a tax year for which you and your spouse filed a
joint return, but through a tax year for which you and
your spouse filed separate returns.
These three situations are illustrated in Figure A. In each
of the situations, 2025 is the current year.
Method of allocation. For a tax year in which you must
allocate the unused foreign tax or the excess limit for your
separate income categories between you and your
spouse, you must take the following steps.
1. Figure a percentage for each separate income category by dividing the taxable income of each spouse
from sources outside the United States in that catePublication 514 (2025)

gory by the joint taxable income from sources outside
the United States in that category. Then, apply each
percentage to its category’s joint foreign tax credit
limit to find the part of the limit allocated to each
spouse.
2. Figure the part of the unused foreign tax, or of the excess limit, for each separate income category allocable to each spouse. You do this by comparing the allocated limit (figured in (1)) with the foreign taxes paid
or accrued by each spouse on income in that category. If the foreign taxes you paid or accrued for that
category are more than your part of its limit, you have
an unused foreign tax. If, however, your part of that
limit is more than the foreign taxes you paid or accrued, you have an excess limit for that category.
Allocation of the carryback and carryover. The mechanics of the carryback and carryover, when allocations
between spouses are needed, are illustrated by the following example.
Example. H and W filed joint returns for 2021, 2023,
and 2024, and separate returns for 2022 and 2025. Neither H nor W had any unused foreign tax or excess limit for
any year before 2021. For the tax years involved, the income, unused foreign tax, excess limits, and carrybacks
and carryovers are general category income and are
shown in Table 5.
W’s allocated part of the unused foreign tax from 2021
($30) is partly absorbed by her separate excess limit of
$20 for 2022 and then fully absorbed by her allocated part
of the joint excess limit for 2023 ($20). H’s allocated part
of the unused foreign tax from 2021 ($50) is fully absorbed
by his allocated part of the joint excess limit ($65) for
2023.
H’s separate unused foreign tax from 2022 ($25) is
partly absorbed (up to $15) by his remaining excess limit
in 2023, and then fully absorbed by W’s remaining part of
the joint excess limit for 2023 ($10). Each spouse’s excess
limit on the 2023 joint return is reduced by the following.
1. Each spouse’s carryover from earlier years. (W’s carryover of $10 from 2021 and H’s carryovers of $50
from 2021 and $15 from 2022.)
2. The other spouse’s carryover. (H’s carryover of $10
from 2022 is absorbed by W’s remaining excess limit.)
W’s allocated part of the unused foreign tax of $69 from
2024 is partly absorbed by her excess limit in 2025 ($10),
and the remaining $59 will be a carryover to general category income for 2026 and the following 8 years unless absorbed sooner. H’s allocated part of the unused foreign
tax of $104 from 2024 is partly absorbed by his excess
limit in 2025 ($50), and the remaining $54 will be a carryover to 2026 and the following 8 years unless absorbed
sooner.

Joint Return Filed in a Deduction Year
When you file a joint return in a deduction year, and carry
unused foreign tax through that year from the prior year in
which you and your spouse filed separate returns, the
39

Figure A. Allocation Between Spouses
(In the following situations, you have to allocate an unused foreign tax or excess limit for a tax year in
which you and your spouse filed a joint return.)
You and your spouse file
separate returns for the
current tax year (2025), to
which you carry an unused
foreign tax from a tax year
for which you and your
spouse filed a joint return.
You and your spouse file
separate returns for the
current tax year (2025), to
which you carry an unused
foreign tax from a tax year
for which you and your
spouse filed separate
returns, but through a tax
year for which you and your
spouse filed a joint return.
You and your spouse file a
joint return for the current
tax year (2025), to which
you carry an unused foreign
tax from a tax year for
which you and your spouse
filed a joint return, but
through a tax year for which
you and your spouse filed
separate returns.

2024 (Joint return—Unused foreign tax year)

J

2025 (Separate return—Excess limit year)

S

S

S

S

2023 (Separate returns—Unused foreign tax year)

J

2024 (Joint return—Excess limit year)
S

S

2025 (Separate returns—Excess limit year)

J

2023 (Joint return—Unused foreign tax year)
2024 (Separate returns—Excess limit year)

S

S
J

2025 (Joint return—Excess limit year)

J—Joint return filed
S—Separate return filed

Table 5. Carryback/Carryover
Tax year

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

Return

Joint

Separate

Joint

Joint

Separate

$50

$25

($65)

$104

($50)

$30

($20)

($20)

$69

($10)

—
—
—
—
—
—

20W
—
—
—
—
—

10W
50H
15H
10W
—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—

—
—
—
—
10W
50H

H’s unused foreign tax to be carried back or over, or
excess limit* (enclosed in parentheses) . . . . . . . . . .
W’s unused foreign tax to be carried back or over, or
excess limit* (enclosed in parentheses) . . . . . . . . . .
Carryover absorbed:
W’s from 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
H’s from 2021 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
H’s from 2022 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
″
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W’s from 2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
H’s from 2024 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
W = Absorbed by W’s excess limit
H = Absorbed by H’s excess limit
* General category income only

amount absorbed in the deduction year is the unused foreign tax of each spouse deemed paid or accrued in the
deduction year up to the amount of that spouse’s excess
limit in that year. You cannot reduce either spouse’s excess limit in the deduction year by the other’s unused foreign taxes in that year.
40

How To Claim the Credit
You must file Form 1116 to claim the foreign tax credit unless you meet one of the following exceptions.
Publication 514 (2025)

Exceptions. If you meet the requirements discussed under Exemption from foreign tax credit limit, earlier, and
choose to be exempt from the foreign tax credit limit, do
not file Form 1116. Instead, enter your foreign taxes directly on Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 1.
If you are a shareholder of a CFC and chose to be
taxed at corporate rates on the amount you must include
in gross income from that corporation, use Form 1118 to
claim the credit. See Controlled foreign corporation (CFC)
shareholder under You Must Have Paid or Accrued the
Tax, earlier.

Form 1116
You must file a Form 1116 with your U.S. income tax return, Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. You must file a
separate Form 1116 for each of the following categories of
income for which you claim a foreign tax credit.

• Section 951A category income.
• Foreign branch category income.
• Passive category income.
• General category income.
• Section 901(j) income.
• Certain income re-sourced by treaty.
• Lump-sum distributions.
A Form 1116 consists of four parts.

1. Part I—Taxable Income or Loss From Sources Outside the United States (for category checked above).
Enter the gross amounts of your foreign, or U.S. territory, source income in the separate limit category for
which you are completing the form. Do not include income you excluded on Form 2555. From these, subtract the deductions that are definitely related to the
separate limit income, and a ratable share of the deductions not definitely related to that income. If, in a
separate limit category, you received income from
more than one foreign country or U.S. territory, complete a separate column for each. You do not need to
report income passed through from a mutual fund or
other RIC on a country-by-country basis. Total all income, in the applicable category, passed through
from the mutual fund or other RIC and enter the total
in a single column in Part I. Enter “RIC” on line i of Part
I. Total all foreign taxes passed through and enter the
total on a single line in Part II for the applicable category. Because computations for inclusions under section 951A are reported on separate Form 8992, U.S.
Shareholder Calculation of Global Intangible
Low-Taxed Income (GILTI), you do not need to report

Publication 514 (2025)

those inclusions on a country-by-country basis. Enter
the total inclusion in a single column in Part l and enter “951A” on line i. See the instructions for line i in the
Instructions for Form 1116 for information about reporting section 863(b) gross income and deductions
and high-taxed income.
2. Part II—Foreign Taxes Paid or Accrued. This part
shows the foreign taxes you paid or accrued on the income in the separate limit category in foreign currency and U.S. dollars. If you paid (or accrued) foreign
tax to more than one foreign country or U.S. territory,
complete a separate line for each. If you receive income passed through from a RIC, aggregate all foreign taxes paid or accrued on that income on a single
line in Part II.
3. Part III—Figuring the Credit. You use this part to figure
the foreign tax credit that is allowable. No foreign tax
carryovers are allowed for foreign taxes paid or accrued on section 951A category income. Leave
line 10 of Form 1116 blank if you complete a Form
1116 for section 951A category income, as carrybacks and carryovers are not allowed for this category
of income.
4. Part IV—Summary of Separate Credits From Parts III.
You use this part on one Form 1116 (the one with the
largest amount entered on line 24) to summarize the
foreign tax credits figured on separate Forms 1116.

Records To Keep
You should keep the following records in case you are
later asked to verify the taxes shown on your Form 1116,
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. You do not have to attach
these records to your Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR.

• A receipt for each foreign tax payment.
• The foreign tax return if you claim a credit for taxes accrued.

• Any payee statement (such as Form 1099-DIV or

Form 1099-INT) showing foreign taxes reported to
you.

The receipt or return you keep as proof should either be
the original, a duplicate original, or a duly certified or authenticated copy. If the receipt or return is in a foreign language, you should also have a certified translation of it.
Revenue Ruling 67-308 in Cumulative Bulletin 1967-2 discusses in detail the requirements of the certified translation. Issues of the Cumulative Bulletin are available in
most IRS offices and you are welcome to read them there.

41

Worksheet. Additional Foreign Tax Credit on U.S. Income*
Note: File this worksheet with your Form 1040 or 1040-SR as an attachment to Form 1116.
I. U.S. tax on U.S. source income (U.S. source rules)

Col. A

Col. B

1. Dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Royalties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Capital gain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. a.

Gross earned income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

b.

Allocable employee business expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

c.
6. a.

Net compensation. Subtract line 5b from line 5a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gross rent, real property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

b.

Direct expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
c. Net rent. Subtract line 6b from line 6a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Other
8. In column A, enter the sum of column A, lines 1–5a, 6a, and 7. In column B, enter
the sum of column B, lines 1–4, 5c, 6c, and 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. Enter tax from Form 1040 or 1040-SR. (See instructions.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10. Enter adjusted gross income (AGI) from line 11a of Form 1040 or 1040-SR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11. Divide line 9 by line 10. Enter the result as a decimal. This is the average tax rate on your AGI

.......

12. Multiply line 11 by line 8 (column B). This is your estimated U.S. tax on your U.S. source income . . . . .
II. Tax at source allowable under treaty
A. Items fully taxable by the United States.
13. a. Identify
b.

Multiply line 13a by line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

B. Items partly taxable by the United States.
14. a. Identify
b.

Treaty rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

c.

Allowable tax at source (Multiply line 14a by line 14b.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

15. a.

Identify

b.

Treaty rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

c.

Allowable tax at source (Multiply line 15a by line 15b.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

16. Total (Add lines 13b, 14c, and 15c.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C. Identify each item of U.S. source income from column A in Step 1 on which the United
States may not, under treaty, tax residents of the other country who are not U.S. citizens.

III. Additional credit
17. Residence country tax on U.S. source income before foreign tax credit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18. Foreign tax credit allowed by residence country for U.S. income tax paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
19. Maximum credit. Subtract the greater of line 16 or line 18 from line 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20. a.

Enter the amount from line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

b.

Enter the greater of line 16 or line 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

c.

Subtract line 20b from line 20a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

21. Additional credit. Enter the smaller of line 19 or line 20c. Add this amount to line 12 of Part III and line 32
of Part IV of Form 1116 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
* See Tax Treaties, earlier, for information on when you should use this worksheet.

42

Publication 514 (2025)

Worksheet Instructions. Additional Foreign Tax Credit on U.S. Income
Note: Complete a separate worksheet for each separate limit income category.
STEP I
Figure the estimated tax on U.S. source income in the separate limit income category using U.S. rules for determining the source of income.
Lines 1–7 Enter the gross amount for each type of income in column A, and the net amount in column B.
Line 9 Enter the amounts from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 16, and Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 1z, less any decrease in tax reported on
Form 8978, line 14.
STEP II
Determine the amount of tax that the United States is allowed to collect at source under the treaty on income in the separate limit income category of
residents of the other country who are not U.S. citizens. (In most cases, this amount should be claimed, to the extent allowable, as a foreign tax
credit on your foreign tax return.)
PART A Income in the separate limit income category fully taxable by the United States. In most cases, this includes income from a U.S. trade
or business and gains from dispositions of U.S. real property. Identify the type and amount on line 13a.
PART B Income in the separate limit income category for which treaty limits U.S. tax at source. This may include dividends, interest, royalties,
and certain pensions.
Lines 14 and 15 Identify each type and amount of income. Use the specified treaty rate. (The current treaty rates are available at IRS.gov/
Individuals/International-Taxpayers/Tax-Treaty-Tables.)
PART C Identify the items in the separate limit income category not taxable at source by the United States under the treaty.
STEP III
Figure the amount of the additional credit for foreign taxes paid or accrued on U.S. source income. The additional credit is limited to the difference
between the estimated U.S. tax (Step I) and the greater of the allowable U.S. tax at source (Step II) or the foreign tax credit allowed by the residence
country (line 18).
Line 17 Enter the amount of the residence country tax on your U.S. source income before reduction for foreign tax credits. If possible, use the
fraction of the pre-credit residence country tax which U.S. source taxable income bears to total taxable income. Otherwise, report that fraction
of the pre-credit foreign tax which gross U.S. income bears to total gross income for foreign tax purposes.
Line 21 This amount may be claimed as a foreign tax credit on Form 1116. First, add this amount to the reduction in foreign taxes on Part III,
line 12, and complete Form 1116 according to the instructions. Also, add this amount as an additional credit to Form 1116, Part IV, line 32, and
report that total on your Form 1040 or 1040-SR. File this worksheet with your Form 1040 or 1040-SR as an attachment to Form 1116.

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military

Publication 514 (2025)

43

OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.
Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the
CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax

preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on
IRS.gov.
Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English
and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian,
and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to

!

44

Publication 514 (2025)

receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You’ll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
Publication 514 (2025)

taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile device to check your refund status.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information

45

on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s

free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and
appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the
Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and
click on “Local Offices.”

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.

Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

————————————————————————

What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/1040X for information and updates.

How Can TAS Help Me?

Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.

TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS. Our services are free.

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our sysCAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able to use
the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information,
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
46

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn’t working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.
Publication 514 (2025)

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or

Publication 514 (2025)

• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

47

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A

Accrual foreign taxes,
adjustments 5
Accrual method of accounting 5
Allocation:
Carryback/carryover between
spouses 39
Foreign losses 33
Foreign taxes 20
U.S. losses 33
Alternative minimum tax 2
Amended return 38
American Samoa, resident of 13
Assistance (See Tax help)

B

Bankruptcy, effect of 38
Beneficiary 9
Bond, income tax 5
Boycotting countries 16

C

Capital gains and losses 28
Carryback and carryover 3, 37
Allocations between spouses 39
Claim for refund 38
Joint return 38
Joint return–deduction year 39
Taxes all credited or deducted 38
Time limit on tax assessment 38
Choice to take credit or deduction:
Changing your choice 3
Choice applied to all qualified
foreign taxes 3
Claim for refund 38
Classes of gross income 26
Compensation for labor or
personal services 21
Geographical basis 23
Controlled foreign corporation
(CFC) shareholder 10, 19
Covered asset acquisition 15
Credit:
How to claim 40
How to figure 18
Limit on 18
Credit for taxes paid or accrued 4

D

E

Economic benefits 11
Excess limit 37
Exchange rates 5
Excluded income:
Foreign earned 13
Taxes on 13
Exemption from foreign tax credit
limit 18
Export financing interest 20
Extraterritorial income 13

F

Financial services income 20
Foreign corporation—U.S.
shareholders, filing
requirements 17
Foreign country 9
Foreign currency and exchange
rates 5
Foreign income, translating 5
Foreign losses:
Allocation of 33
Recapture of 33
Foreign mineral income, taxes
on 16
Foreign oil and gas extraction
income, taxes on 16
Foreign partnerships—U.S.
partners, filing requirement 17
Foreign tax refund 8, 10
Foreign tax(es):
Allocation to income categories 20
For which you cannot take a
credit 12
Imposed on foreign refund 8
Qualifying for credit 9
Redetermination 6
Refund 8
Form:
1040-X 38
1116 41
5471 17
5713 16
7204 5
8833 37
8865 17
8873 13
Functional currency 5

Deduction for foreign taxes that are G
not income taxes 3
General category income, separate
Distributions:
limit 20
Lump-sum 20
Dividends:
H
Taxes on 15
High-taxed income 20
Dual-capacity taxpayers 11

48

I

Income from sources in U.S.
territories 21
Income re-sourced by treaty,
separate limit 20
Income tax bond 5
Interest 12
Interest expense, apportioning 26
International boycott 16
Itemized deduction 13

J

Joint return:
Carryback and carryover 38
Credit based on foreign tax of both
spouses 9
Filed in a deduction year 39

L

Limit on credit 18
Losses, foreign 33
Allocation of 33
Recapture of 33
Losses, U.S. 33
Allocation of 33
Lump-sum distributions (LSDs) 20

M

Making or changing your choice 3
Married couples:
Carryback and carryover 38
Joint return 9
Mineral income, foreign, 16
Mutual fund distributions 10, 19
Mutual fund shareholder 10

N

Nonresident aliens 9
Notice to the IRS of change in tax 7

O

Overall foreign loss 33

P

Partner 9, 19, 21
Passive category income 19
Penalties 8, 12
Failure to file Form 5471, 8865 17
Failure to file Form 5713 16
Failure to notify, foreign tax
change 8
Failure to report treaty
information 37
Pension, employment, and
disability fund payments 11
Personal property, sales or
exchanges of 24
Publication 514 (2025)

Publications (See Tax help)
Purchase or sale of oil or gas,
taxes in connection with 16

Q

Qualified business unit (QBU) 6
Qualified dividends 28

R

Rate of exchange 6
Recapture of foreign losses 33
Records to keep 41
Redetermination of foreign tax 6
Refund claims, time limit 8
Refund, foreign tax 10
Reporting requirements
(international boycott) 16
Resident aliens 9

S

S corporation shareholder 9, 21
Sanctioned countries 14
Schedule B (Form 1116) 37
Schedule C (Form 1116) 7
Section 901(j) income 20
Section 901(j) sanctioned
income 14

Publication 514 (2025)

Separate limit income 19
General category income 20
Income re-sourced by treaty 20
Lump-sum distribution 20
Passive category income 19
Section 901(j) income 20
Shareholder 10
Soak-up taxes 12
Social security taxes 11
Source of compensation for labor
or personal services:
Alternative basis 24
Multi-year compensation 22
Time basis 22
Transportation income 24
State income taxes 27
Subsidy 10

T

Tax help 43
Tax treaties 36
Taxable income from sources
outside the U.S., determination
of 25
Taxes:
Excluded income 13
In lieu of income taxes 12

On dividends 15
Paid or accrued 4
Withheld on income or gain 15
Taxes related to a foreign tax credit
splitting event 17
Territory exclusion 13
Time limit:
Refund claims 8
Tax assessment 38
Translating foreign currency 5

U

U.S. citizens 8
U.S. losses:
Allocation of 33
U.S. territories 9
Unused foreign tax credits,
carryback or carryover 3, 37

W

Wages 13
When refunds can be claimed 8
When tax can be assessed 38
Who can take the credit 8
Why choose the credit 4

49

