Publication 517

Social Security
and Other
Information for
Members of the
Clergy and
Religious
Workers

Contents
Future Developments
What's New

.................. 1

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Social Security Coverage . . . . . . . . . . 3

2025 Returns

............. 5

Ministerial Services

Exemption From Self-Employment
(SE) Tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Self-Employment Tax: Figuring Net
Earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Income Tax: Income and Expenses . . . . 9
Filing Your Return

For use in preparing

............ 1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

Retirement Savings Arrangements . . . 12
Earned Income Credit (EIC)
Worksheets

. . . . . . . 13

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Index

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments
related to Pub. 517, such as legislation enacted
after this publication was published, go to
IRS.gov/Pub517.

What's New

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Feb 20, 2026

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Electronic payments and direct deposit. If
you have access to U.S. banking services or
electronic payments systems, you should use
direct deposit for any refunds. The IRS recommends paying electronically whenever possible.
Options to pay electronically include using your
bank account with Direct Pay, your debit or
credit card, your digital wallet, or your online account. Go to IRS.gov/Payments to see all your
payment options. Also, see ModernPayments.
New deductions for itemizers and non-itemizers. Recent legislation provided for four new
deductions that take effect beginning in 2025. If
you are eligible, you can claim these deductions
if you take the standard deduction or if you itemize on Schedule A (Form 1040). For more information on these deductions, see the instructions for Form 1040. The new deductions are as
follows.
• No tax on tips. You may be eligible to take
a deduction for qualified tips paid to you in
2025. You can't deduct more than $25,000
of those tips. Your deduction will be limited
if your modified adjusted gross income is
more than $150,000 ($300,000 if married
filing jointly). To be eligible, you and/or your
spouse who received the tips must have a

Publication 517 (2025) Catalog Number 15021X
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

valid SSN. If you are married, you must file
a joint return.
• No tax on overtime. If you earned qualified overtime, you may be eligible to deduct up to $12,500 ($25,000 if married filing jointly) of your qualified overtime
compensation. Your deduction will be limited if your modified adjusted gross income
is more than $150,000 ($300,000 if married filing jointly). To be eligible, you and/or
your spouse who received the overtime
must have a valid SSN. If you are married,
you must file a joint return.
• No tax on car loan interest. If you paid or
accrued interest on a vehicle loan that
meets certain requirements, you may be
able to deduct up to $10,000 of that interest as qualified passenger vehicle loan interest. Your amount of deductible interest
will begin to phaseout if your modified adjusted gross income is more than
$100,000 ($200,000 if married filing
jointly).
• Enhanced deduction for seniors. If you
were born before January 2, 1961, you
may be eligible for an enhanced deduction
for seniors. Your deduction will be limited if
your modified adjusted gross income is
more than $75,000 ($150,000 if married filing jointly). To be eligible, you and/or your
spouse must have a valid SSN. If you are
married, you must file a joint return. The
maximum amount of the deduction is
$6,000 ($12,000 if both spouses are eligible).
New Schedule 1-A. A new schedule to Form
1040, Schedule 1-A, has been created for taxpayers to claim a deduction for the recently
enacted deductions for no tax on tips, no tax on
overtime, no tax on car loan interest, and the
enhanced deduction for seniors. For more information, see the instructions for Form 1040.
Standard mileage rate. The business standard mileage rate for 2025 is 70 cents per mile.
Earnings subject to social security tax. For
2025, the maximum wages and self-employment income subject to social security tax has
increased to $176,100.
Modified adjusted gross income (AGI) limit
for deduction of traditional IRA contributions. For 2025, you may be able to take a deduction for your traditional IRA contributions if
you were covered by a retirement plan at work
and your modified AGI is:
• Less than $146,000 if married filing jointly
or qualifying surviving spouse;
• Less than $89,000 if single or head of
household; or
• Less than $10,000 if married filing separately.
If you file a joint return and either you or your
spouse wasn't covered by a retirement plan at
work, you may be able to take a deduction for
your traditional IRA contributions if your modified AGI is less than $246,000.
Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions increased. For 2025, you may be able to
contribute to your Roth IRA if your modified AGI
is:
• Less than $246,000 if married filing jointly
or qualifying surviving spouse;
• Less than $165,000 if single, head of
household, or married filing separately and
2

Table 1.

Are Your Ministerial Earnings* Covered Under FICA or SECA?
Find the class to which you belong in the left column and read across
the table to find if you are covered under FICA or SECA. Don't rely on
this table alone. Also read the discussion for the class in the following
pages.
Class

Minister

Covered under FICA?
NO. Your ministerial earnings
are exempt.

Covered under SECA?
YES, if you don't have an
approved exemption from
the IRS.
NO, if you have an approved
exemption.

Member of a religious order
who hasn't taken a vow of
poverty

NO. Your ministerial earnings
are exempt.

YES, if you don't have an
approved exemption from
the IRS.
NO, if you have an approved
exemption.

Member of a religious order
who has taken a vow of
poverty

YES, if:
• Your order elected FICA
coverage for its
members; or
• You worked outside the
order and the work
wasn't required by, or
done on behalf of, the
order.

NO. Your ministerial
earnings are exempt.

NO, if neither of the above
applies.
Christian Science practitioner
or reader

NO. Your ministerial earnings
are exempt.

YES, if you don't have an
approved exemption from
the IRS.
NO, if you have an approved
exemption.

Religious worker (church
employee)

YES, if your employer didn't
elect to exclude you.
NO, if your employer elected
to exclude you.

Member of a recognized
religious sect

YES, if you are an employee
and don't have an approved
exemption from the IRS.
NO, if you have an approved
exemption.

YES, if your employer
elected to exclude you from
FICA.
NO, if you are covered
under FICA.
YES, if you are
self-employed and don't
have an approved
exemption from the IRS.
NO, if you have an approved
exemption.

* Ministerial earnings are the self-employment earnings that result from ministerial services, defined and discussed
later.

you didn't live with your spouse at any time
during the year; or
• Less than $10,000 if married filing separately and you lived with your spouse at
any time during the year.
Earned income credit (EIC). For 2025, the
maximum amount of income you can earn and
still claim the EIC has increased. See Earned
Income Credit, later.

Reminders
Social security information. Social security
beneficiaries may quickly and easily obtain various information from the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) website with a my Social Security account, including getting a replacement
Form SSA-1099 or SSA-1042S. For more information, go to SSA.gov/myaccount.
Photographs of missing children. The IRS is
a proud partner with the National Center for
Missing & Exploited Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the
Publication 517 (2025)

Center may appear in this publication on pages
that would otherwise be blank. You can help
bring these children home by looking at the
photographs and calling 1-800-THE-LOST
(1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
Three federal taxes are paid on wages and
self-employment income—income tax, social
security tax, and Medicare tax. Social security
and Medicare taxes are collected under one of
two systems. Under the Self-Employment Contributions Act (SECA), the self-employed person
pays all the taxes. Under the Federal Insurance
Contributions Act (FICA), the employee and the
employer each pay half of the social security
and Medicare taxes. No earnings are subject to
both systems.
In addition, all wages and self-employment
income that are subject to Medicare tax are
subject to a 0.9% Additional Medicare Tax to
the extent they exceed the applicable threshold
for an individual's filing status. Medicare wages
and self-employment income are combined to
determine if income exceeds the threshold. A
self-employment loss isn't considered for purposes of this tax. Railroad retirement (RRTA) compensation is separately compared to the threshold. Additional Medicare Tax applies to
Medicare wages, RRTA compensation, and
self-employment income that are more than:
• $125,000 if married filing separately,
• $250,000 if married filing jointly, or
• $200,000 for any other filing status.
There is no employer match for Additional Medicare Tax. For more information, see Form 8959,
Additional Medicare Tax, and its separate instructions.
This publication contains information for the
following classes of taxpayers.
• Ministers.
• Members of a religious order.
• Christian Science practitioners and readers.
• Religious workers (church employees).
• Members of a recognized religious sect.
Note. Unless otherwise noted, in this publication references to members of the clergy include ministers, members of a religious order
(but not members of a recognized religious
sect), and Christian Science practitioners and
readers.
This publication covers the following topics
about the collection of social security and Medicare taxes from members of the clergy, religious
workers, and members of a recognized religious
sect.
• Which earnings are taxed under FICA and
which under SECA. See Table 1.
• How a member of the clergy can apply for
an exemption from self-employment tax.
• How a member of a recognized religious
sect can apply for an exemption from both
self-employment tax and FICA taxes.
• How a member of the clergy or a religious
worker figures net earnings from self-employment.
This publication also covers certain income
tax rules of interest to ministers and members of
a religious order.

Publication 517 (2025)

In the back of Pub. 517 is a set of worksheets that you can use to figure the
amount of your taxable ministerial income and allowable deductions.

Schedule 1-A (Form 1040) Additional
Deductions

Note. In this publication, the term “church”
is generally used in its generic sense and not in
reference to any particular religion.

Schedule SE (Form 1040)
Self-Employment Tax

Schedule 1-A (Form 1040)

Schedule C (Form 1040) Profit or Loss
From Business (Sole Proprietorship)
Schedule C (Form 1040)

Schedule SE (Form 1040)

1040-ES Estimated Tax for Individuals
1040-ES

Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or, you can write to
the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and
Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW,
IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments and
suggestions as we revise our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions.
If you have a tax question not answered by this
publication or the How To Get Tax Help section
at the end of this publication, go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the
search feature or viewing the categories listed.

1040-X Amended U.S. Individual Income
Tax Return
1040-X

4029 Application for Exemption From
Social Security and Medicare Taxes
and Waiver of Benefits
4029

4361 Application for Exemption From
Self-Employment Tax for Use by
Ministers, Members of Religious
Orders and Christian Science
Practitioners
4361

7206 Self-Employed Health Insurance
Deduction
7206

8274 Certification by Churches and
Qualified Church-Controlled
Organizations Electing Exemption
From Employer Social Security and
Medicare Taxes
8274

8959 Additional Medicare Tax
8959

8962 Premium Tax Credit (PTC)
8962

Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download
current and prior-year forms, instructions, and
publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and
publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year
forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon
as possible. Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
54 Tax Guide for U.S. Citizens and
Resident Aliens Abroad

Ordering publications and forms. See How
To Get Tax Help, at the end of this publication,
for information about getting these publications
and forms.

Social Security
Coverage
This section gives information about which system (SECA or FICA) is used to collect social security and Medicare taxes from members of the
clergy (ministers, members of a religious order,
and Christian Science practitioners and readers) and religious workers (church employees).

Coverage of Members of the
Clergy

54

525 Taxable and Nontaxable Income
525

529 Miscellaneous Deductions
529

590-A Contributions to Individual
Retirement Arrangements (IRAs)
590-A

590-B Distributions from Individual
Retirement Arrangements (IRAs)
590-B

596 Earned Income Credit (EIC)
596

Form (and Instructions)
SS-8 Determination of Worker Status for
Purposes of Federal Employment
Taxes and Income Tax Withholding
SS-8

SS-16 Certificate of Election of Coverage
Under the Federal Insurance
Contributions Act
SS-16

The services you perform in the exercise of your
ministry, of the duties required by your religious
order, or of your profession as a Christian Science practitioner or reader are covered by social security and Medicare under SECA. Your
earnings for these ministerial services (defined
later) are subject to self-employment (SE) tax
unless one of the following applies.
• You are a member of a religious order who
has taken a vow of poverty.
• You ask the IRS for an exemption from SE
tax for your services and the IRS approves
your request. See Exemption From
Self-Employment (SE) Tax, later.
• You are subject only to the social security
laws of a foreign country under the provisions of a social security agreement between the United States and that country.
For more information, see Bilateral Social
Security (Totalization) Agreements in Pub.
3

54, Tax Guide for U.S. Citizens and Resident Aliens Abroad.
Your earnings that aren't from ministerial
services may be subject to social security tax
under FICA or SECA according to the rules that
apply to taxpayers in general. See Ministerial
Services, later.

Ministers
If you are a minister of a church, your earnings
for the services you perform in your capacity as
a minister are subject to SE tax, even if you perform these services as an employee of that
church. However, you can request that the IRS
grant you an exemption, as discussed under
Exemption From Self-Employment (SE) Tax,
later. For the specific services covered, see
Ministerial Services, later.
Ministers defined. Ministers are individuals
who are duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed by a religious body constituting a
church or church denomination. Ministers have
the authority to conduct religious worship, perform sacerdotal functions, and administer ordinances or sacraments according to the prescribed tenets and practices of that church or
denomination.
If a church or denomination ordains some
ministers and licenses or commissions others,
anyone licensed or commissioned must be able
to perform substantially all the religious functions of an ordained minister to be treated as a
minister for social security purposes.
Employment status for other tax purposes.
Even though all of your income from performing
ministerial services is subject to self-employment tax for social security tax purposes, you
may be an employee for income tax or retirement plan purposes in performing those same
services. For income tax or retirement plan purposes, your income earned as an employee will
be considered wages.
Common-law employee. Under common-law rules, you are considered either an
employee or a self-employed person. Generally,
you are an employee if you perform services for
someone who has the legal right to control both
what you do and how you do it, even if you have
considerable discretion and freedom of action.
For more information about the common-law
rules, see Pub. 15-A, Employer's Supplemental
Tax Guide.
If a congregation employs you and pays you
a salary, you are generally a common-law employee and income from the exercise of your
ministry is wages for income tax purposes.
However, amounts received directly from members of the congregation, such as fees for performing marriages, baptisms, or other personal
services, aren't wages; such amounts are
self-employment income for both income tax
purposes and social security tax purposes.
Example. A church hires and pays you a
salary to perform ministerial services subject to
its control. Under the common-law rules, you
are an employee of the church while performing
those services.

4

Form SS-8. If you aren't certain whether
you are an employee or a self-employed person, you can get a determination from the IRS
by filing Form SS-8.

Members of Religious Orders
If you are a member of a religious order who
hasn't taken a vow of poverty, your earnings for
ministerial services you perform as a member of
the order are subject to SE tax. See Ministerial
Services, later. However, you can request that
the IRS grant you an exemption, as discussed
under Exemption From Self-Employment (SE)
Tax, later.
Vow of poverty. If you are a member of a religious order and have taken a vow of poverty,
you are already exempt from paying SE tax on
your earnings for ministerial services you perform as an agent of your church or its agencies.
You don't need to request a separate exemption. For income tax purposes, the earnings are
tax free to you. Your earnings are considered
the income of the religious order.
Services covered under FICA at the election of the order. However, even if you have
taken a vow of poverty, the services you perform for your church or its agencies may be covered under social security. Your services are
covered if your order, or an autonomous subdivision of the order, elects social security coverage for its current and future vow-of-poverty
members.
The order or subdivision elects coverage by
filing Form SS-16. The election may cover certain vow-of-poverty members for a retroactive
period of up to 20 calendar quarters before the
quarter in which it files the certificate. If the election is made, the order or subdivision pays both
the employer's and employee's share of the tax.
You don't pay any of the FICA tax.
Services performed outside the order.
Even if you are a member of a religious order
who has taken a vow of poverty and the order
requires you to turn over amounts you earn,
your earnings are subject to federal income tax
and either SE tax or FICA tax (including estimated tax payments and/or withholding) if you:
• Are self-employed or an employee of an organization outside your religious community; and
• Perform work not required by, or done on
behalf of, the order.
In these cases, your income from self-employment or as an employee of that outside organization is taxable to you directly. You may,
however, be able to take a charitable deduction
for the amount you turn over to the order. See
Pub. 526, Charitable Contributions.
Rulings. Organizations and individuals may
request rulings from the IRS on whether they
are religious orders, or members of a religious
order, respectively, for FICA tax, SE tax, and
federal income tax withholding purposes. To request a ruling, follow the procedures in Revenue
Procedure 2025-1. To find the revenue procedure, go to IRS.gov and type “Revenue Procedure 2025-1” in the search box.

Christian Science Practitioners
and Readers
Generally, your earnings from services you perform in your profession as a Christian Science
practitioner or reader are subject to SE tax.
However, you can request an exemption, as discussed under Exemption From Self-Employment (SE) Tax, later.
Practitioners. Christian Science practitioners
are members in good standing of the Mother
Church, The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in
Boston, Massachusetts, who practice healing
according to the teachings of Christian Science.
State law specifically exempts Christian Science practitioners from licensing requirements.
Some Christian Science practitioners are
also Christian Science teachers or lecturers. Income from teaching or lecturing is considered
the same as income from their work as practitioners.
Readers. For tax purposes, Christian Science
readers are considered the same as ordained,
commissioned, or licensed ministers.

Coverage of Religious
Workers (Church
Employees)
If you are a religious worker (a church employee) and aren't in one of the classes already
discussed, your wages are generally subject to
social security and Medicare tax under FICA,
not SECA. Some exceptions are discussed
next.

Election by Church To Exclude Its
Employees From FICA Coverage
Churches and qualified church-controlled organizations (church organizations) that are opposed for religious reasons to the payment of
social security and Medicare taxes may elect to
exclude their employees from FICA coverage. If
your employer makes this election, it doesn't
pay the employer's portion of the FICA taxes or
withhold from your pay your portion of the FICA
taxes. Instead, your wages are subject to SECA
and you must pay SE tax on your wages if they
exceed $108.28 during the tax year. However,
you can request an exemption from SE tax if
you are a member of a recognized religious
sect, as discussed below.
Churches and church organizations make
this election by filing two copies of Form 8274.
For more information about making this election, see Form 8274.

Election by Certain Church
Employees Who Are Opposed to
Social Security and Medicare
You may be able to choose to be exempt from
social security and Medicare taxes, including
the SE tax, if you are a member of a recognized
religious sect or division and work for a church
(or church-controlled nonprofit division) that
doesn't pay the employer's part of the social security tax on wages. This exemption doesn't
Publication 517 (2025)

apply to your service, if any, as a minister of a
church or as a member of a religious order.
Make this choice by filing Form 4029. See
Requesting Exemption—Form 4029, later, under Members of Recognized Religious Sects.

U.S. Citizens and Resident
and Nonresident Aliens
To be covered under the SE tax provisions
(SECA), individuals must generally be citizens
or resident aliens of the United States. Nonresident aliens aren't covered under SECA unless a
social security agreement in effect between the
United States and the foreign country determines that they are covered under the U.S. social security system.
To determine your alien status, see Pub.
519, U.S. Tax Guide for Aliens.
Residents of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), and
American Samoa. If you are a resident of one
of these U.S. territories but not a U.S. citizen, for
SE tax purposes you are treated the same as a
citizen or resident alien of the United States. For
information on figuring the tax, see Self-Employment Tax: Figuring Net Earnings, later.

Ministerial Services
Ministerial services, in general, are the services
you perform in the exercise of your ministry, in
the exercise of your duties as required by your
religious order, or in the exercise of your profession as a Christian Science practitioner or
reader. Income you receive for performing ministerial services is subject to SE tax unless you
have an exemption, as explained later. Even if
you have an exemption, only the income you receive for performing ministerial services is exempt. The exemption doesn't apply to any other
income.
The following discussions provide more detailed information on ministerial services of ministers, members of a religious order, and Christian Science practitioners and readers.

Ministers
Most services you perform as a minister, priest,
rabbi, etc., are ministerial services. These services include:
• Performing sacerdotal functions;
• Conducting religious worship; and
• Controlling, conducting, and maintaining
religious organizations (including the religious boards, societies, and other integral
agencies of such organizations) that are
under the authority of a religious body that
is a church or denomination.
You are considered to control, conduct, and
maintain a religious organization if you direct,
manage, or promote the organization's activities.
A religious organization is under the authority of a religious body that is a church or
Publication 517 (2025)

denomination if it’s organized for, and dedicated
to, carrying out the principles of a faith according to the requirements governing the creation
of institutions of the faith.
Services for nonreligious organizations.
Your services for a nonreligious organization are
ministerial services if the services are assigned
or designated by your church. Assigned or designated services qualify even if they don't involve performing sacerdotal functions or conducting religious worship.
If your services aren't assigned or designated by your church, they are ministerial services
only if they involve performing sacerdotal functions or conducting religious worship.
Services that aren't part of your ministry.
Income from services you perform as an employee that aren't ministerial services is subject
to social security and Medicare tax withholding
under FICA (not SECA) under the rules that apply to employees in general. The following aren't
ministerial services.
• Services you perform for nonreligious organizations other than the services stated
above.
• Services you perform as a duly ordained,
commissioned, or licensed minister of a
church as an employee of the United
States, the District of Columbia, a foreign
government, or any of their political subdivisions. These services aren't ministerial
services even if you are performing sacerdotal functions or conducting religious worship. (For example, if you perform services
as a chaplain in the Armed Forces of the
United States, those services aren't ministerial services.)
• Services you perform in a government-owned and operated hospital.
(These services are considered performed
by a government employee, not by a minister as part of the ministry.) However, services that you perform at a church-related
hospital or health and welfare institution, or
a private nonprofit hospital, are considered
to be part of the ministry and are considered ministerial services.
Books or articles. Writing religious books or
articles is considered to be in the exercise of
your ministry and is considered a ministerial
service.
This rule also applies to members of religious orders and to Christian Science practitioners and readers.

Members of Religious
Orders
Services you perform as a member of a religious order in the exercise of duties required by
the order are ministerial services. The services
are considered ministerial because you perform
them as an agent of the order.
For example, if the order directs you to perform services for another agency of the supervising church or an associated institution, you
are considered to perform the services as an
agent of the order.

However, if the order directs you to work outside the order, this employment won't be considered a duty required by the order unless:
• Your services are the kind that are ordinarily performed by members of the order;
and
• Your services are part of the duties that
must be exercised for, or on behalf of, the
religious order as its agent.
Effect of employee status. Ordinarily, if your
services aren't considered directed or required
of you by the order, you and the outside party
for whom you work are considered employee
and employer. In this case, your earnings from
the services are taxed under the rules that apply
to employees in general, not under the rules for
services performed as an agent of the order.
This result is true even if you have taken a vow
of poverty.
Example. Pat Brown and Chris Green are
members of a religious order and have taken
vows of poverty. They renounce all claims to
their earnings. The earnings belong to the order.
Pat is a licensed attorney. The superiors of
the order instructed Pat to get a job with a law
firm. Pat joined a law firm as an employee and,
as requested, the firm made the salary payments directly to the order.
Chris is a secretary. The superiors of the order instructed Chris to accept a job with the
business office of the church that supervises
the order. Chris took the job and gave all earnings to the order.
Pat's services aren't duties required by the
order. Pat’s earnings are subject to social security and Medicare tax under FICA and to federal
income tax.
Chris' services are duties required by the order. Chris is acting as an agent of the order and
not as an employee of a third party. Chris
doesn't include the earnings in gross income,
and they aren't subject to income tax withholding or to social security and Medicare tax under
FICA or SECA.

Christian Science
Practitioners and Readers
Services you perform as a Christian Science
practitioner or reader in the exercise of your profession are ministerial services. Amounts you
receive for performing these services are generally subject to SE tax. You may request an exemption from SE tax, discussed next, which applies only to those services.

Exemption From
Self-Employment (SE)
Tax
You can request an exemption from SE tax if
you are a member of the clergy (minister, member of a religious order, or Christian Science
practitioner or reader) or a member of a recognized religious sect.

5

Generally, members of religious orders

TIP who have taken a vow of poverty are al-

Table 2.

ready exempt from paying SE tax, as
discussed earlier under Members of Religious
Orders under Social Security Coverage. They
don't have to request the exemption.
Who can't be exempt. You can't be exempt
from SE tax if you made one of the following
elections to be covered under social security.
These elections are irrevocable.
• You elected to be covered under social security by filing Form 2031, Revocation of
Exemption From Self-Employment Tax for
Use by Ministers, Members of Religious
Orders, and Christian Science Practitioners, for your 1986, 1987, 2000, or 2001 tax
year.
• You elected before 1968 to be covered under social security for your ministerial services.
Requesting exemption. Table 2 briefly summarizes the procedure for requesting exemption
from the SE tax. More detailed explanations follow.
If you are a minister, member of a religious order, or Christian Science pracCAUTION titioner, an approved exemption only
applies to earnings you receive for ministerial
services, discussed earlier. It doesn't apply to
any other self-employment income.

!

Members of the Clergy
To claim the exemption from SE tax, you must
meet all of the following conditions.
• You file Form 4361, described below under
Requesting Exemption—Form 4361.
• You are conscientiously opposed to public
insurance because of your individual religious considerations (not because of your
general conscience), or you are opposed
because of the principles of your religious
denomination.
• You file for other than economic reasons.
• You inform the ordaining, commissioning,
or licensing body of your church or order
that you are opposed to public insurance if
you are a minister or a member of a religious order (other than a vow-of-poverty
member). This requirement doesn't apply
to Christian Science practitioners or readers.
• You establish that the organization that ordained, commissioned, or licensed you, or
your religious order, is a tax-exempt religious organization.
• You establish that the organization is a
church or a convention or association of
churches.
• You didn't make an election, discussed
earlier under Who can't be exempt.
• You sign and return the statement the IRS
mails to you to certify that you are requesting an exemption based on the grounds listed on the statement.

6

The Self-Employment Tax Exemption Application and Approval
Process
Who Can Apply
Members of the Clergy

Members of Recognized Religious
Sects

How

File Form 4361

File Form 4029

When

File by the due date (including
extensions) of your income tax return
for the second tax year in which you
had at least $400 of net earnings from
self-employment, any of which came
from ministerial services

File anytime

Approval

If approved, you will receive an
approved copy of Form 4361

If approved, you will receive an
approved copy of Form 4029

Effective
Date

For all tax years after 1967 in which
you have at least $400 of net earnings
from self-employment, any of which
came from ministerial services

For all tax years beginning with the
first year you meet the eligibility
requirements, discussed later

Requesting Exemption—Form
4361
To request exemption from SE tax, file Form
4361 in triplicate (original and two copies) with
the IRS.
The IRS will return to you a copy of the
Form 4361 that you filed indicating
RECORDS whether it has approved your exemption. If it’s approved, keep the approved copy of
Form 4361 in your permanent records.
When to file. File Form 4361 by the date your
income tax return is due, including extensions,
for the second tax year in which both of the following are true.
1. You have net earnings from self-employment of at least $400.
2. Any part of those net earnings was from
ministerial services you performed as a:
a. Minister,
b. Member of a religious order, or
c. Christian Science practitioner or
reader.
The 2 years don't have to be consecutive tax
years.
The approval process can take some

TIP time, so you should file Form 4361 as
soon as possible.

Example 1. Rev. Taylor Jaeger, a member
of the clergy ordained in 2025, has net self-employment earnings as a minister of $450 in 2025
and $500 in 2026. Rev. Jaeger must file his application for exemption by the due date, including extensions, for his 2026 income tax return.
However, if Rev. Jaeger doesn’t receive IRS approval for an exemption by April 15, 2027, his
SE tax for 2026 is due by that date.
Example 2. Rev. Casey Wolfe has only
$300 in net self-employment earnings as a minister in 2025, but earned more than $400 in
2024 and expects to earn more than $400 in
2026. Rev. Wolfe must file her application for
exemption by the due date, including

extensions, for her 2026 income tax return.
However, if Rev. Wolfe doesn't receive IRS approval for an exemption by April 15, 2027, her
SE tax for 2026 is due by that date.
Example 3. In 2023, Rev. Riley Moss was
ordained a minister and had $700 in net
self-employment earnings as a minister. In
2024, Rev. Moss received $1,000 as a minister,
but his related expenses were over $1,000.
Therefore, he had no net self-employment earnings as a minister in 2024. Also in 2024, Rev.
Moss opened a bookstore and had $8,000 in
net self-employment earnings from the store. In
2025, he had net self-employment earnings of
$1,500 as a minister and $10,000 net self-employment earnings from the store.
Rev. Moss had net earnings from self-employment in 2023 and 2025 that were $400 or
more each year, and part of the self-employment earnings in each of those years was for
his services as a minister. Thus, Rev. Moss
must file his application for exemption by the
due date, including extensions, for his 2025 income tax return. However, if Rev. Moss doesn’t
receive IRS approval for an exemption by April
15, 2026, his SE tax for 2025 is due by that
date.
Death of individual. The right to file an application for exemption ends with an individual's
death. A surviving spouse, executor, or administrator can't file an exemption application for a
deceased clergy member.
Effective date of exemption. An approved exemption is effective for all tax years after 1967 in
which you have $400 or more of net earnings
from self-employment and any part of those
earnings is for services as a member of the
clergy. Once the exemption is approved, it is irrevocable.
Example. Rev. Hayden Austin, ordained in
2022, had $400 or more in net self-employment
earnings, in both 2022 and 2025, part of which
was from her services as a minister. Rev. Austin
files an application for exemption on February
19, 2026. If an exemption is granted, it is effective for 2022 and the following years.

Publication 517 (2025)

Refunds of SE tax. If, after receiving an approved Form 4361, you find that you overpaid
SE tax, you can file a claim for refund on Form
1040-X. Generally, for a refund, you must file
Form 1040-X within 3 years from the date you
filed the return or within 2 years from the date
you paid the tax, whichever is later. A return you
filed, or tax you paid, before the due date is
considered to have been filed or paid on the
due date.
If you file a claim after the 3-year period but
within 2 years from the time you paid the tax,
the credit or refund won't be more than the tax
you paid within the 2 years immediately before
you file the claim.

Members of Recognized
Religious Sects
If you are a member of a recognized religious
sect, or a division of a recognized religious sect,
you can apply for an exemption from payment of
social security and Medicare taxes on both your
self-employment income and the wages you
earn from an employer who also has an exemption.
Exception. If you received social security benefits or payments, or anyone else received
these benefits or payments based on your wages or self-employment income, you can't apply.
However, if you pay your benefits back, you may
be considered for exemption. Contact your local
SSA office to find out the amount you must pay
back.
Eligibility requirements. To claim this exemption from SE tax, all of the following requirements must be met.
1. You must file Form 4029, discussed later
under Requesting Exemption—Form
4029.
2. As a follower of the established teachings
of the sect or division, you must be conscientiously opposed to accepting benefits of
any private or public insurance that makes
payments for death, disability, old age, retirement, or medical care, or provides
services for medical care.
3. You must waive all rights to receive any social security payment or benefit and agree
that no benefits or payments will be made
to anyone else based on your wages and
self-employment income.
4. The Commissioner of Social Security must
determine that:
a. Your sect or division has the established teachings as described in (2)
above;
b. It is the practice, and has been for a
substantial period of time, for members of the sect or division to provide
for their dependent members in a
manner that is reasonable in view of
the members' general level of living;
and
c. The sect or division has existed at all
times since December 31, 1950.

Publication 517 (2025)

Requesting Exemption—Form
4029
To request the exemption, file Form 4029 in triplicate (original and two copies) with the SSA at
the address shown on the form. The sect or division must complete part of the form.
The IRS will return to you a copy of the
Form 4029 that you filed indicating
RECORDS whether it has approved your exemption. If it is approved, keep the approved copy of
Form 4029 in your permanent records.
When to file. You can file Form 4029 at any
time.
If you have an approved exemption from SE
tax and for some reason that approved exemption ended, you must file a new Form 4029 if
you subsequently meet the eligibility requirements, discussed earlier. See Effective date of
exemption, next, for information on when the
newly approved exemption would become effective.
If you have a previously approved exemption
from SE tax, you are considered to have met the
requirements for exemption from social security
and Medicare taxes on wages and don't need to
file a new Form 4029.
Effective date of exemption. An approved exemption from SE tax is generally effective for all
tax years beginning with the first year you meet
the eligibility requirements discussed earlier.
(For example, if you meet the eligibility requirements in 2023, file Form 4029 in 2024, and the
IRS approves your exemption in 2025, your exemption is effective for tax year 2023 and all
later years.)
The exemption will end if you fail to meet the
eligibility requirements or if the Commissioner of
Social Security determines that the sect or division fails to meet them. You must notify the IRS
within 60 days if you are no longer a member of
the religious group, or if you no longer follow the
established teachings of this group. The exemption will end for the tax year in which you or your
sect/division first fails to meet the eligibility requirements.
Refunds of SE tax paid. To get a refund of
any SE tax you paid while the exemption was in
effect, file Form 1040-X. For information on filing
this form, see Refunds of SE tax under Requesting Exemption—Form 4361, earlier.

Exemption From FICA Taxes
Generally, under FICA, the employer and the
employee each pay half of the social security
and Medicare tax. Both the employee and the
employer, if they meet the eligibility requirements, discussed earlier, can apply to be exempt from their share of FICA taxes on wages
paid by the employer to the employee.
A partnership in which each partner holds a
religious exemption from social security and
Medicare tax is an employer for this purpose.

If the employer's application is ap-

TIP proved, the exemption will apply only to

FICA taxes on wages paid to employees who also received an approval of identical
applications.
Information for employers. If you have an
approved Form 4029 and you have an employee who has an approved Form 4029, don't
report wages you paid to the employee as social security and Medicare wages.
If you have an employee who doesn't have
an approved Form 4029, you must withhold the
employee's share of social security and Medicare taxes and pay the employer's share.
Form W-2. When preparing a Form W-2,
Wage and Tax Statement, for an employee with
an approved Form 4029, enter “Form 4029” in
box 14, “Other.” Don't make any entries in box 3,
4, 5, or 6.

Forms 941, 943, and 944. If both you and
your employee have received approved Forms
4029, don't include these exempt wages on the
following forms. Instead, follow the instructions
given below.
• Form 941, Employer's QUARTERLY Federal Tax Return: check the box on line 4
and enter “Form 4029” in the empty space
below the checkbox.
• Form 943, Employer's Annual Federal Tax
Return for Agricultural Employees: enter
“Form 4029” on the dotted line next to the
lines 2 and 4 entry spaces.
• Form 944, Employer's ANNUAL Federal
Tax Return: check the box on line 3 and
enter “Form 4029” in the empty space below the checkbox.
Effective date. An approved exemption
from FICA becomes effective on the first day of
the first calendar quarter after the quarter in
which you file Form 4029. The exemption will
end on the last day of the calendar quarter before the quarter in which the employer, employee, sect, or division fails to meet the requirements.

Self-Employment Tax:
Figuring Net Earnings
There are two methods for figuring your net
earnings from self-employment as a member of
the clergy or a religious worker.
• Regular method.
• Nonfarm optional method.
You may find Worksheets 1 through 3

TIP helpful in figuring your net earnings

from self-employment. Blank worksheets are in the back of this publication.

Regular Method
Most people use the regular method. Under this
method, figure your net earnings from self-employment by totaling your gross income for services you performed as a minister, a member of
a religious order who hasn't taken a vow of poverty, or a Christian Science practitioner or
reader. Then, subtract your allowable business
7

deductions and multiply the difference by
92.35% (0.9235). Use Schedule SE (Form
1040) to figure your net earnings and SE tax.
If you are an employee of a church that elected to exclude you from FICA coverage, figure
net earnings by multiplying your church wages
shown on Form W-2 by 92.35% (0.9235). Don't
reduce your wages by any business deductions
when making this computation. Use Schedule SE (Form 1040), to figure your net earnings
and SE tax.
If you have an approved exemption, or
you are automatically exempt, don't inCAUTION clude the income or deductions from
ministerial services in figuring your net earnings
from self-employment.

!

Amounts included in gross income. To figure your net earnings from self-employment (on
Schedule SE (Form 1040)), include in gross income:
1. Salaries and fees for your ministerial services (discussed earlier);
2. Offerings you receive for marriages, baptisms, funerals, masses, etc.;
3. The value of meals and lodging provided
to you, your spouse, and your dependents
for your employer's convenience;
4. The fair rental value of a parsonage provided to you (including the cost of utilities
that are furnished) and the rental allowance (including an amount for payment of
utilities) paid to you; and
5. Any amount a church pays toward your income tax or SE tax, other than withholding
the amount from your salary. This amount
is also subject to income tax.
For the income tax treatment of items (2)
and (4), see Income Tax: Income and Expenses, later.
Example. Pastor Leslie Adams receives an
annual salary of $39,000 as a full-time minister.
The $39,000 includes $5,000 that is designated
as a rental allowance to pay utilities. His church
owns a parsonage that has a fair rental value of
$12,000 per year. The church gives Pastor
Adams the use of the parsonage. Pastor Adams
isn’t exempt from SE tax and must include
$51,000 ($39,000 plus $12,000) when figuring
his net earnings for SE tax purposes.
The results would be the same if, instead of
the use of the parsonage and receipt of the
rental allowance for utilities, Pastor Adams had
received an annual salary of $51,000 of which
$17,000 ($5,000 plus $12,000) per year was
designated as a rental allowance.
Overseas duty. Your net earnings from
self-employment are determined without any
foreign earned income exclusion or the foreign
housing exclusion or deduction if you are a U.S.
citizen or resident alien serving abroad and living in a foreign country.
For information on excluding foreign earned
income or the foreign housing amount, see Pub.
54.
Example. You were the minister of a U.S.
church in Mexico. You earned $35,000 in that
8

position and were able to exclude it all for income tax purposes under the foreign earned income exclusion. The United States doesn't
have a social security agreement with Mexico,
so you are subject to U.S. SE tax and must include $35,000 when figuring net earnings from
self-employment.
Specified U.S. territories. The exclusion from
gross income for amounts derived from American Samoa or Puerto Rico doesn't apply in figuring net earnings from self-employment. Also
see Residents of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), and American Samoa, earlier, under U.S. Citizens and Resident
and Nonresident Aliens.
Amounts not included in gross income.
Don't include the following amounts in gross income when figuring your net earnings from
self-employment.
• Offerings that others made to the church.
• Contributions by your church to a tax-sheltered annuity plan set up for you, including
any salary reduction contributions (elective
deferrals) that aren't included in your gross
income.
• Pension payments or retirement allowances you receive for your past ministerial
services.
• The rental value of a parsonage or a parsonage allowance provided to you after
you retire.
Allowable deductions. When figuring your
net earnings from self-employment, deduct all
your expenses related to your ministerial services performed as a self-employed person.
These are ministerial expenses you incurred
while working other than as a common-law employee of the church. They include expenses incurred in performing marriages and baptisms,
and in delivering speeches. Deduct these expenses on Schedule C (Form 1040), and carry
the net amount to line 2 of Schedule SE (Form
1040).
Wages earned as a common-law employee
(explained earlier) of a church are generally
subject to self-employment tax unless an exemption is requested, as discussed earlier under Exemption From Self-Employment (SE) Tax.
Subtract any allowable expenses from those
wages, include the net amount on line 2 of
Schedule SE (Form 1040), and attach an explanation. Don't complete Schedule C (Form
1040).
Employee reimbursement arrangements. If
you received an advance, allowance, or reimbursement for your employee expenses, how
you report this amount and your employee expenses depends on whether your employer reimbursed you under an accountable plan or a
nonaccountable plan. Ask your employer if you
aren't sure if it reimburses you using an accountable or a nonaccountable plan.

Accountable plans. To be an accountable
plan, your employer's reimbursement arrangement must include all three of the following
rules.
• Your expenses must have a business connection—that is, you must have paid or incurred deductible expenses while performing services as an employee of your
employer.
• You must adequately account to your employer for these expenses within a reasonable period of time.
• You must return any excess reimbursement
or allowance within a reasonable period of
time.
The reimbursement isn't reported on your
Form W-2. Generally, if your expenses equal
your reimbursement, you have no deduction. If
your expenses are more than your reimbursement, you can deduct your excess expenses for
SE tax and income tax purposes.
Nonaccountable plan. A nonaccountable
plan is a reimbursement arrangement that
doesn't meet one or more of the three rules listed under Accountable plans above. In addition,
even if your employer has an accountable plan,
the following payments will be treated as being
paid under a nonaccountable plan.
• Excess reimbursements you fail to return to
your employer.
• Reimbursement of nondeductible expenses related to your employer's business.
Your employer will combine any reimbursement paid to you under a nonaccountable plan
with your wages, salary, or other compensation
and report the combined total in box 1 of your
Form W-2. Because reimbursements under a
nonaccountable plan are included in your gross
income, you can deduct your related expenses
(for SE tax and income tax purposes) regardless of whether they are more than, less than, or
equal to your reimbursement.
For more information on accountable and
nonaccountable plans, see Pub. 463, Travel,
Gift, and Car Expenses.

Married Couple Missionary Team
If both spouses are duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed ministers of a church and
have an agreement that each will perform specific services for which they are paid jointly or
separately, they must divide the self-employment income according to the agreement.
If the agreement is with one spouse only and
the other spouse isn't paid for any specific duties, amounts received for their services are included only in the self-employment income of
the spouse having the agreement.

Earnings Subject to SE Tax
For 2025, the maximum net earnings from
self-employment subject to social security (old
age, survivors, and disability insurance) tax is
$176,100 minus any wages and tips you earned
that were subject to social security tax. The tax
rate for the social security part is 12.4%. In addition, all of your net earnings are subject to the
Medicare (hospital insurance) part of the SE
tax. This tax rate is 2.9%. The combined
Publication 517 (2025)

self-employment tax rate is 15.3% (12.4% social security tax + 2.9% Medicare tax).
Additional Medicare Tax. A 0.9% Additional
Medicare Tax applies to Medicare wages, RRTA
compensation, and self-employment income
that are more than:
• $125,000 if married filing separately,
• $250,000 if married filing jointly, or
• $200,000 for any other filing status.
Medicare wages and self-employment income
are combined to determine if income exceeds
the threshold. A self-employment loss isn't considered for purposes of this tax. RRTA compensation is separately compared to the threshold.
For more information, see Form 8959, Additional Medicare Tax, and its separate instructions.

Nonfarm Optional Method
You may be able to use the nonfarm optional
method for figuring your net earnings from
self-employment. In general, the nonfarm optional method is intended to permit continued
coverage for social security and Medicare purposes when your income for the tax year is low.
You may use the nonfarm optional method if
you meet all of the following tests.
1. You are self-employed on a regular basis.
You meet this test if your actual net earnings from self-employment were $400 or
more in at least 2 of the 3 tax years before
the one for which you use this method.
The net earnings can be from either farm
or nonfarm earnings or both.
2. You have used this method less than 5
prior years. (There is a 5-year lifetime
limit.) The years don't have to be consecutive.
3. Your net nonfarm profits were:
a. Less than $7,840; and
b. Less than 72.189% of your gross nonfarm income.
If you meet all three tests, use Table 3 to figure your net earnings from self-employment under the nonfarm optional method.

Table 3. Figuring Nonfarm Net
Earnings
IF your gross
nonfarm
income is ...

THEN your net earnings
are equal to ...

$10,860 or less

two-thirds of your gross
nonfarm income.

more than
$10,860

$7,240.

Actual net earnings. Multiply your total earnings subject to SE tax by 92.35% (0.9235) to
get actual net earnings. Actual net earnings are
equivalent to net earnings under the “Regular
Method.”
More information. For more information on
the nonfarm optional method, see Pub. 334, Tax
Publication 517 (2025)

Guide for Small Business, and the Instructions
for Schedule SE (Form 1040).

Income Tax: Income and
Expenses
Some income and expense items are treated
the same for both income tax and SE tax purposes and some are treated differently.
Note. For purposes of this section, references to members of the clergy are only to ministers or members of a religious order.

Income Items
The tax treatment of offerings and fees, outside
earnings, rental allowances, rental value of a
parsonage, earnings of members of religious orders, and foreign earned income is discussed
here.

Offerings and Fees
If you are a member of the clergy, you must include in your income offerings and fees you receive for marriages, baptisms, funerals,
masses, etc., in addition to your salary. If the offering is made to the religious institution, it isn't
taxable to you.

Outside Earnings
If you are a member of a religious organization
and you give your outside earnings to the organization, you still must include the earnings in
your income. However, you may be entitled to a
charitable contribution deduction for the amount
paid to the organization. For more information,
see Pub. 526.

Exclusion of Rental Allowance and
Fair Rental Value of a Parsonage
Ordained, commissioned, or licensed ministers
of the gospel may be able to exclude from income tax the rental allowance or fair rental
value of a parsonage that is provided to them as
pay for their services. Services include:
• Ministerial services, discussed earlier;
• Administrative duties and teaching at theological seminaries; and
• The ordinary duties of a minister performed as an employee of the United
States (other than as a chaplain in the
Armed Forces), a state, territory, political
subdivision, or the District of Columbia.
This exclusion applies only for income tax
purposes. It doesn't apply for SE tax purposes,
as discussed earlier under Amounts included in
gross income under Self-Employment Tax: Figuring Net Earnings.
Designation requirement. The church or organization that employs you must officially designate the payment as a housing allowance before it makes the payment. It must designate a
definite amount. It can't determine the amount
of the housing allowance at a later date. If the
church or organization doesn't officially desig-

nate a definite amount as a housing allowance,
you must include your total salary in your income.
If you are employed and paid by a local congregation, a resolution by a national church
agency of your denomination doesn't effectively
designate a housing allowance for you. The local congregation must officially designate the
part of your salary that is a housing allowance.
However, a resolution of a national church
agency can designate your housing allowance if
you are directly employed by the national
agency.
An official designation of an amount as a
housing or rental allowance may be shown in an
employment contract, in the minutes of a church
or qualified organization, in a budget, or in any
official action taken in advance of payment of
the allowance. A designation is sufficient if it
permits a payment to be identified as a payment
of a rental or housing allowance as distinguished from salary or other remuneration.
Informal discussions don't amount to an official designation. However, the facts and circumstances of a designation may demonstrate that
the designation was official.
A church or employing organization

TIP may report the rental allowance or fair

rental value of the parsonage (and utilities) in box 14 of Form W-2.
Rental allowances. If you receive in your salary an amount officially designated as a rental
allowance (including an amount to pay utility
costs), you can exclude the allowance from your
gross income if:
• You use the amount to provide or rent a
home, and
• The amount isn't more than reasonable
pay for your services.
The amount you exclude can't be more than
the fair rental value of the home, including furnishings, plus the cost of utilities.
Fair rental value of parsonage. You can exclude from gross income the fair rental value of
a house or parsonage, including utilities, furnished to you as part of your earnings. However, the exclusion can't be more than the reasonable pay for your services. If you pay for the
utilities, you can exclude any allowance designated for utility costs, up to your actual cost.
Example. Rev. Layne Baker is a full-time
minister. The church allows Rev. Baker to use a
parsonage that has an annual fair rental value of
$24,000. The church pays her an annual salary
of $67,000, of which $7,500 is designated for
utility costs. Her actual utility costs during the
year were $7,000.
For income tax purposes, Rev. Baker excludes $31,000 from gross income ($24,000 fair
rental value of the parsonage plus $7,000 from
the allowance for utility costs). Rev. Baker will
report $60,000 ($59,500 salary plus $500 of unused utility allowance). However, her income for
SE tax purposes is $91,000 ($67,000 salary +
$24,000 fair rental value of the parsonage).
Home ownership. If you own your home and
you receive as part of your salary a housing or

9

rental allowance, you may exclude from gross
income the smallest of:
• The amount actually used to provide a
home;
• The amount officially designated as a
rental allowance; or
• The fair rental value of the home, including
furnishings, utilities, garage, etc.
Excess rental allowance. You must include in gross income the amount of any rental
allowance that is more than the smallest of:
• Your reasonable salary,
• The fair rental value of the home plus utilities, or
• The amount actually used to provide a
home.
Include this amount in the total on Form
1040 or 1040-SR, line 1h. On the dotted line
next to line 1h, enter “Excess allowance” and
the amount.
You may deduct the home mortgage in-

TIP terest and real estate taxes paid on

your home even though you pay all or
part of those expenses with funds you get
through a tax-free rental or parsonage allowance. However, you can only deduct these expenses as itemized deductions on Schedule A
(Form 1040).
Retired ministers. If you are a retired minister,
you can exclude from your gross income the
rental value of a home (plus utilities) furnished
to you by your church as a part of your pay for
past services, or the part of your pension that
was designated as a rental allowance. However,
a minister's surviving spouse can't exclude the
rental value unless the rental value is for ministerial services they perform or performed.
Teachers or administrators. If you are a minister employed as a teacher or administrator by
a church school, college, or university, you are
performing ministerial services for purposes of
the housing exclusion. However, if you perform
services as a teacher or administrator on the
faculty of a nonchurch college, you can't exclude from your income a housing allowance or
the value of a home that the college provides to
you.
If you live in faculty lodging as an emTIP ployee of an educational institution or
academic health center, all or part of
the value of that lodging may be nontaxable under a different rule. In Pub. 525, see Faculty
lodging in the discussion on meals and lodging
under Fringe Benefits.
If you serve as a minister of music or minister of education, or serve in an administrative or
other function of your religious organization, but
aren't authorized to perform substantially all of
the religious duties of an ordained minister in
your church (even if you are commissioned as a
minister of the gospel), the housing exclusion
doesn't apply to you.
Theological students. If you are a theological
student serving a required internship as a
part-time or assistant pastor, you can't exclude
a parsonage or rental allowance from your income unless you are ordained, commissioned,
or licensed as a minister.
10

Traveling evangelists. You can exclude a designated rental allowance from out-of-town
churches if you meet all of the following requirements.
• You are an ordained minister.
• You perform ministerial services at
churches located away from your community.
• You actually use the rental allowance to
maintain your permanent home.
Cantors. If you have a bona fide commission
and your congregation employs you on a
full-time basis to perform substantially all the religious functions of the Jewish faith, you can exclude a rental allowance from your gross income.

Earnings—Members of Religious
Orders
Your earnings may be exempt from both income
tax and SE tax if you are a member of a religious order who:
• Has taken a vow of poverty,
• Receives earnings for services performed
as an agent of the order and in the exercise
of duties required by the order, and
• Renounces the earnings and gives them to
the order.
See Members of Religious Orders, earlier,
under Social Security Coverage.

Foreign Earned Income
Certain income may be exempt from income tax
if you work in a foreign country or in a specified
U.S. territory. Pub. 54 discusses the foreign
earned income exclusion. Pub. 570, Tax Guide
for Individuals With Income From U.S. Territories, covers the rules for taxpayers with income
from U.S. territories. You can get these free publications from the IRS at IRS.gov/Forms or from
most U.S. embassies or consulates.

Expense Items
The tax treatment of expenses allocable to
tax-free income and health insurance costs is
discussed here.

Expenses Allocable to Tax-Free
Income
If you receive a rental or parsonage allowance
that is exempt from income tax (tax free), you
must allocate a portion of the expenses of operating your ministry to that tax-free income. You
can't deduct the portion of your expenses that
you allocate to your tax-free rental or parsonage
allowance.
Exception. This rule doesn't apply to your deductions for home mortgage interest or real estate taxes on your home.
Figuring the allocation. Figure the portion of
your otherwise deductible expenses that you
can't deduct (because you must allocate that
portion to tax-free income) by multiplying the
expenses by the following fraction:

Tax-free rental or
parsonage allowance
All income (taxable
and tax free) earned
from your ministry

When figuring the allocation, include the income and expenses related to the ministerial
duties you perform both as an employee and as
a self-employed person.
Reduce your otherwise deductible ex-

TIP penses only in figuring your income
tax, not your SE tax.

Example. Rev. Peyton Ashford received
$40,000 in earnings for ministerial services consisting of a $28,000 salary for ministerial services performed as an employee, $2,000 for
weddings and baptisms performed as a
self-employed person, and a $10,000 tax-free
parsonage allowance. Rev. Ashford incurred
$4,000 of unreimbursed expenses connected
with his earnings for ministerial services: $3,500
of the $4,000 is for employee expenses related
to his ministerial salary. Rev. Ashford is no longer able to deduct the $3,500 incurred for employee expenses related to his ministerial salary
since miscellaneous itemized deductions aren’t
allowed for tax years beginning after 2017 pursuant to section 67(h) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Since the $500 is related to the weddings
and baptisms he performed as a self-employed
person, this amount is otherwise deductible.
Rev. Ashford figures the nondeductible
(tax-free) portion of expenses related to his
wedding and baptism income as follows:
($10,000 ÷ $40,000) × $500 = $125

Required statement. If you receive a tax-free
rental or parsonage allowance and have ministerial expenses, attach a statement to your tax
return. The statement must contain all of the following information.
• A list of each item of taxable ministerial income by source (such as wages, salary,
weddings, baptisms, etc.) plus the amount.
• A list of each item of tax-free ministerial income by source (parsonage allowance)
plus the amount.
• A list of each item of otherwise deductible
ministerial expenses plus the amount.
• How you figured the nondeductible part of
your otherwise deductible expenses.
• A statement that the other deductions
claimed on your tax return aren't allocable
to your tax-free income.
At the end of this publication, you will find
blank worksheets for your own use.

Health Insurance Costs of
Self-Employed Ministers
If you are self-employed, you may be able to deduct the amount you paid in 2025 for medical,
dental, and vision insurance and qualified
long-term care insurance for you, your spouse,
your dependents, and any child you may have
who, as of the end of the tax year, had not attained age 27.

Publication 517 (2025)

For purposes of this deduction, your child
must be an individual who is your son, daughter, stepson, stepdaughter, or eligible foster
child. An individual who has been legally adopted by you (or placed with you for adoption) will
be treated as your child.
If you qualify, you can take this deduction as
an adjustment to income on Schedule 1 (Form
1040), line 17. See the Instructions for Form
1040 to figure your deduction.
The following special rules apply to the
self-employed health insurance deduction.
• You can't take a medical expense deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040) for any expenses you claim for purposes of the
self-employed health insurance deduction.
• You can't take the deduction for any month
you are eligible to participate in a subsidized plan of your (or your spouse's) employer.
• The deduction can't exceed your net earnings from the business under which the insurance plan is established. Your net earnings under this rule don't include the
income you earned as a common-law employee (discussed earlier) of a church.
More information. For more information
about the self-employed health insurance deduction, see Form 7206 and its instructions.

Deduction for SE Tax
You can deduct one-half of your SE tax in figuring AGI. This is an income tax deduction only,
which is claimed on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 15. This deduction doesn’t include taxes
imposed by section 1401(b)(2), pursuant to
section 164(f)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.

!

CAUTION

Don't claim this deduction in figuring
net earnings from self-employment
subject to SE tax.

Income Tax Withholding and
Estimated Tax
The federal income tax is a pay-as-you-go tax.
You must pay the tax as you earn or receive income during the year. An employee usually has
income tax withheld from their wages or salary.
However, your salary isn't subject to federal income tax withholding if both of the following
conditions apply.
• You are a duly ordained, commissioned, or
licensed minister, a member of a religious
order (who hasn't taken a vow of poverty),
or a Christian Science practitioner or
reader.
• Your salary is for ministerial services (see
Ministerial Services, earlier).
If your salary isn't subject to withholding, or if
you don't pay enough tax through withholding,
you may need to make estimated tax payments
to avoid penalties for not paying enough tax as
you earn your income.
You must generally make estimated tax payments if you expect to owe taxes, including SE
tax, of $1,000 or more, when you file your return.
Determine your estimated tax by using the
worksheets in Pub. 505, Tax Withholding and
Estimated Tax. You can also use the IRS Withholding Estimator at IRS.gov/W4App. Pay the
entire estimated tax for 2026 or the first installment by April 15, 2026. See Form 1040-ES for
the different payment methods. The April 15
date applies whether or not your tax home and
your abode are outside the United States and

Puerto Rico. For more information, see chapter 2 of Pub. 505.
If you perform your services as a common-law employee of the church and your salary isn't subject to income tax withholding, you
can enter into a voluntary withholding agreement with the church to cover any income and
SE tax that may be due.

Filing Your Return
You must file an income tax return for 2025 if
your gross income was at least the amount
shown in the third column of Table 4.
Additional requirements. Even if your income was less than the amount shown in Table 4, you must file an income tax return on
Form 1040 or 1040-SR, and attach a completed
Schedule SE (Form 1040), if:
• You aren't exempt from SE tax, and you
have net earnings from self-employment
(discussed earlier under Self-Employment
Tax: Figuring Net Earnings) of $400 or
more in the tax year;
• You are exempt from SE tax on earnings
from ministerial services and you have
$400 or more of other net earnings subject
to SE tax; or
• You had wages of $108.28 or more from an
electing church or church-controlled organization (see Coverage of Religious Workers
(Church Employees), earlier, under Social
Security Coverage).
Self-employment tax. For services in the exercise of the ministry, members of the clergy receive a Form W-2, but do not have social security or Medicare taxes withheld. You must pay
social security and Medicare taxes by filing
Schedule SE (Form 1040) with your return.

Table 4. 2025 Filing Requirements for Most Taxpayers
IF your filing status is...

AND at the end of 2025
you were*...

THEN file a return if your gross income** was
at least...

Single

under age 65
65 or older

$15,750
17,750

Married filing jointly***

under 65 (both spouses)
65 or older (one spouse)
65 or older (both spouses)

$31,500
33,100
34,700

Married filing separately

any age

Head of household

under 65
65 or older

$23,625
25,625

Qualifying surviving spouse

under 65
65 or older

$31,500
33,100

$5

* If you were born on January 1, 1961, you are considered to be age 65 at the end of 2025. (If your spouse died in 2025 or you are preparing a return for
someone who died in 2025, see Pub. 501, Dependents, Standard Deduction, and Filing Information.)
** Gross income means all income you received in the form of money, goods, property, and services that isn't exempt from tax, including any income from
sources outside the United States or from the sale of your main home (even if you can exclude part or all of it). Don’t include any social security benefits
unless (a) you are married filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time in 2025, or (b) one-half of your social security benefits plus your
other gross income and any tax-exempt interest is more than $25,000 ($32,000 if married filing jointly). If (a) or (b) applies, see the instructions for Form
1040, lines 6a and 6b, to figure the taxable part of social security benefits you must include in gross income. Gross income includes gains, but not losses,
reported on Form 8949 or Schedule D (Form 1040). Gross income from a business means, for example, the amount on Schedule C (Form 1040), line 7; or
Schedule F (Form 1040), line 9. But, in figuring gross income, don't reduce your income by any losses, including any loss on Schedule C (Form 1040),
line 7; or Schedule F (Form 1040), line 9.
*** If you didn't live with your spouse at the end of 2025 (or on the date your spouse died) and your gross income was at least $5, you must file a return
regardless of your age.

Publication 517 (2025)

11

If you filed Form 4361 and didn't receive approval from the IRS, you must pay SE tax on
your ministerial earnings, as explained earlier.
You should report ministerial earnings and expenses from nonemployee ministerial services
on Schedule C (Form 1040). You should then
carry the net amount over to line 2 of Schedule SE (Form 1040). However, if you were a duly
ordained minister who was an employee of a
church and you must pay SE tax on the wages
you earned for those services, don't report
those wages on Schedule C (Form 1040). Instead, report those wages less any allowable
expenses on line 2 of Schedule SE (Form 1040)
and attach an explanation.
Exemption from SE tax. If you filed Form
4361 and received IRS approval not to be taxed
on your ministerial earnings, and you don't have
any other income subject to SE tax, don't file
Schedule SE (Form 1040). Instead, check box 1
on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 4. However, if
you had net earnings from another trade or
business of $400 or more subject to SE tax, see
line A at the top of Schedule SE (Form 1040).
If you filed Form 4029 and received IRS approval not to be taxed on those earnings, and
you don't have any other income subject to SE
tax, don't file Schedule SE (Form 1040). Instead, check box 2 on Schedule 2 (Form 1040),
line 4.
More information. For more information on filing your return, including when and where to file
it, see the Instructions for Form 1040.

Retirement Savings
Arrangements
Retirement savings arrangements are plans that
offer you a tax-favored way to save for your retirement. You can generally deduct your contributions to the plan. Your contributions and the
earnings on them generally aren't taxed until
they are distributed. However, if the plan permits, you may choose to have contributions
made to a Roth contribution program, and those
contributions won't be excluded from your income, but will be distributed tax free if you satisfy certain requirements.
Retirement plans for the self-employed. To
set up one of the following plans, you must be
self-employed.
• SEP (simplified employee pension) plan.
• SIMPLE (savings incentive match plan for
employees) plan.
• Qualified retirement plan (also called a
Keogh or H.R. 10 plan), including a 401(k)
plan.
The common-law rules determine whether
you are an employee or a self-employed person
for purposes of setting up a retirement plan.
See Employment status for other tax purposes
under Coverage of Members of the Clergy, earlier. This result is true even if your compensation
for ministerial services (defined earlier) is subject to SE tax.
For example, if a congregation pays you a
salary for performing ministerial services and
you are subject to the congregation's control,
you are generally a common-law employee. You
12

aren't a self-employed person for purposes of
setting up a retirement plan. This result is true
even if your salary is subject to SE tax.
On the other hand, amounts received directly from members of the congregation, such
as fees for performing marriages, baptisms, or
other personal services that you report on
Schedule C (Form 1040), are earnings from
self-employment for all tax purposes.
Contributions generally may be made on a
pre-tax basis or, if permitted by the plan, they
may be made as a Roth contribution on an after-tax basis. For more information on establishing a SEP, SIMPLE, or qualified retirement plan,
see Pub. 560, Retirement Plans for Small Business.
Individual retirement arrangements (IRAs).
The traditional IRA and the Roth IRA are two individual retirement arrangements you can use
to save money for your retirement. Generally,
your maximum contribution for 2025 to either of
these plans (or to a combination of the two) is
the smaller of your taxable compensation or
$7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older by the
end of 2025).
However, your maximum contribution to a
Roth IRA will be further reduced or eliminated if
your AGI is above a certain amount. You can't
deduct Roth IRA contributions, but if you satisfy
certain requirements, all earnings in the Roth
IRA are tax free and neither your nondeductible
contributions nor any earnings on them are taxable when distributed.
If you contribute to a traditional IRA, your
contribution may be deductible. However, your
deduction may be reduced or eliminated if you
or your spouse is covered by an employer retirement plan (including, but not limited to, a SEP,
SIMPLE, or qualified retirement plan).
For more information on IRAs, see Pub.
590-A, Contributions to Individual Retirement
Arrangements.
Tax-sheltered annuity plans. Church employees, members of religious orders, and duly ordained, commissioned, or licensed ministers
working as ministers or chaplains can generally
participate in tax-sheltered annuity (403(b))
plans. For more information, see Pub. 571,
Tax-Sheltered Annuity Plans.
Deducting contributions to tax-sheltered
annuity plans. If you are an employee, your
employer may exclude allowable contributions
to a 403(b) plan from your income. These contributions won't be included in your total wages
on your Form W-2, but you will pay tax on distributions from your plan. However, if you choose
to have contributions made to a Roth contribution program, they won't be excluded from your
income, but will be distributed tax free if you satisfy certain requirements.
You may also participate in a 403(b) plan if
you are a minister or chaplain and, in the exercise of your ministry, you are either self-employed or employed by an organization that isn't
exempt from tax under section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code. If either situation applies to you, you can deduct your contributions
to a 403(b) plan as explained next.
• If you are self-employed, deduct your contributions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 16.

• If you aren't self-employed and your em-

ployer doesn't exclude your contributions
from your earned income, deduct your contributions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 24g.

Retirement savings contributions credit.
You may be able to take a tax credit of up to
$1,000 (up to $2,000 if married filing jointly) for
certain contributions you make to any of the retirement plans or IRAs discussed earlier. The
credit is based on the contributions you make
and your credit rate. Your credit rate can be as
low as 10% or as high as 50%, depending on
your filing status and AGI. Figure the credit on
Form 8880, Credit for Qualified Retirement Savings Contributions.
You can't take the credit if any of the following apply.
1. You were born after January 1, 2008.
2. You were a student who, during any part of
5 calendar months (not necessarily consecutive) of 2025:
a. Was enrolled as a full-time student at
a school that has a regular teaching
staff, course of study, and regularly
enrolled body of students in attendance; or
b. Took a full-time, on-farm training
course given by a school that has a
regular teaching staff, course of study,
and regularly enrolled body of students in attendance, or a state,
county, or local government agency.
3. Someone, such as your parent(s), claims
you as a dependent on their 2025 tax return.
4. Your AGI for 2025 is more than:
a. $79,000, if your filing status is married
filing jointly;
b. $59,250, if your filing status is head of
household; or
c. $39,500, if your filing status is single,
married filing separately, or qualifying
surviving spouse.
School. A school includes technical, trade,
and mechanical schools. It doesn't include
on-the-job training courses, correspondence
schools, or schools offering courses only
through the Internet.
Full-time student. You are a full-time student if you are enrolled for the number of hours
or courses the school considers to be full time.
AGI. When figuring AGI, you must add
back any exclusion or deduction claimed for the
year for:
1. Foreign earned income,
2. Foreign housing costs,
3. Income of bona fide residents of American
Samoa, and
4. Income of bona fide residents of Puerto
Rico.
More information. For more information
about the credit, see Pub. 590-A.
Publication 517 (2025)

Earned Income Credit
(EIC)
The EIC is a tax credit for certain people who
work. If you qualify for it, the EIC reduces the tax
you owe. The EIC may give you a refund even if
you don't owe any tax.
You can't take the credit for 2025 if your
earned income (or adjusted gross income) is:
• $19,104 or more ($26,214 or more if married filing jointly) and you don't have a qualifying child,
• $50,434 or more ($57,554 or more if married filing jointly) and you have one qualifying child,
• $57,310 or more ($64,430 or more if married filing jointly) and you have two qualifying children, or

Publication 517 (2025)

• $61,555 or more ($68,675 if married filing

(Form 1040), line 15, for the deductible part of your SE tax.

jointly) and you have three or more qualifying children.

Earned income.
your:

Earned income includes

1. Wages, salaries, tips, and other taxable
employee compensation (even if these
amounts are exempt from FICA or SECA
under an approved Form 4029 or 4361);
and
2. Net earnings from self-employment that
are not exempt from SECA (you don't
have an approved Form 4029 or 4361) that
you report on Schedule SE (Form 1040),
line 3, with the following adjustments.
a. Subtract the amount you claimed (or
should have claimed) on Schedule 1

b. Add any amount from Schedule SE
(Form 1040), line 4b and line 5a.
If you are a minister and have an approved Form 4361, your earned inCAUTION come will still include wages and salaries earned as an employee, but it will not
include amounts you received for nonemployee
ministerial duties, such as fees for performing
marriages and baptisms, and honoraria for delivering speeches.

!

More information. For detailed rules on this
credit, see Pub. 596. To figure the amount of
your credit, you can either fill out a worksheet or
have the IRS figure the credit for you. See Pub.
596 for the steps you must follow to have the
IRS figure your EIC.

13

Worksheets
These worksheets are provided to help you figure your taxable ministerial income, your allowable deductions, and your net self-employment income.

Worksheet 1. Figuring the Percentage of Tax-Free Income
Note. For each line, enter the appropriate amount in all boxes that aren't shaded.
(a)
Taxable

Source of Income
1

W-2 salary as a minister (from box 1 of Form W-2)

1

2

Gross income from weddings, baptisms, writing, lecturing, etc. (from line 1 of
Schedule C)

2

(b)
Tax-free

(c)
Total

Note. Complete either lines 3a through 3e or lines 4a through 4i.
• If your church provides you with a parsonage, complete lines 3a through 3e.
• If, instead of providing a parsonage, your church provides you with a rental or parsonage allowance, complete lines 4a through 4i.
3a FRV* of parsonage provided by church

3a

b Utility allowance, if any

3b

c Actual expenses for utilities

3c

d Enter the smaller of line 3b or 3c

3d

e Excess utility allowance (subtract line 3d from line 3b)

3e

4a Parsonage or rental allowance

4a

b Utility allowance, if separate

4b

c Total allowance (add lines 4a and 4b)

4c

d Actual expenses for parsonage

4d

e Actual expenses for utilities

4e

f Total actual expenses for parsonage and utilities (add lines 4d and 4e)

4f

g FRV* of home, plus the cost of utilities

4g

h Enter the smaller of line 4c, 4f, or 4g

4h

i Excess allowance (subtract line 4h from line 4c)
5

Ministerial income (for columns (a), (b), and (c), add lines 1 through 4i)

6

Percentage of tax-free income: Total tax-free income (line 5(b)) $
Total income (line 5(c)) $

4i
5
=

%**

* FRV (Fair Rental Value): As determined objectively and between unrelated parties, what it would cost to rent a comparable home (including
furnishings) in a similar location.
** This percentage of your ministerial expenses won't be deductible. Use Worksheets 2 and 3 to figure your allowable deductions.

Worksheet 2. Figuring the Allowable Deduction for Schedule C Expenses
1

Percentage of expenses that are nondeductible (from Worksheet 1, line 6):

2

Business use of car for entire year:

3

Meals: $

4

Other expenses (list item and amount)

%

miles × 70 cents ($0.70)

× 50% (0.50)

2
3

a

4a

b

4b

c

4c

d

4d

e

4e

f Total other expenses (add lines 4a through 4e)

4f

5

Total Schedule C expenses (add lines 2, 3, and 4f)

5

6

Nondeductible part of Schedule C expenses (multiply line 5 by the percent in line 1)

6

7

Deduction allowed.* Subtract line 6 from line 5. Enter the result here and on Schedule C, line 27b.

7

* None of the other deductions claimed in this return are allocable to tax-free income.

14

Publication 517 (2025)

Worksheet 3. Figuring Net Self-Employment Income for Schedule SE (Form 1040)
1

W-2 salary as a minister (from box 1 of Form W-2)

1

2

Net profit from Schedule C, line 31

2

3a

Parsonage or rental allowance (from Worksheet 1, line 3a or 4a)

3a

b

Utility allowance (from Worksheet 1, line 3b or 4b)

3b

c

Total allowance (add lines 3a and 3b)

3c

4

Add lines 1, 2, and 3c

4

5

Schedule C expenses allocable to tax-free income (from Worksheet 2, line 6)

5

6

Total unreimbursed employee business expenses

6

7

Total business expenses not deducted in lines 1 and 2 above (add lines 5 and 6)

7

8

Net self-employment income. Subtract line 7 from line 4. Enter here and on Schedule SE (Form
1040), line 2.

8

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need
help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go
to IRS.gov to find resources that can help you
right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting
federal taxes, credits, and deductions was
enacted in P.L. 119-21, commonly known as the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July 4, 2025. Go
to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After
receiving all your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC,
1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment compensation
statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form
1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement
statements from banks and investment firms
(Forms 1099), you have several options to
choose from to prepare and file your tax return.
You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if
you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax
professional to prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online
or in your local community, if you qualify, include
the following.
• Free File. This program lets you prepare
and file your federal individual income tax
return for free using software or Free File
Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation may not be available through Free File.
Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify
for free online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to
people with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help
preparing their own tax returns. Go to
IRS.gov/VITA, download the free IRS2Go
app, or call 800-906-9887 for information
on free tax return preparation.
• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly
(TCE) program offers free tax help for all
taxpayers, particularly those who are 60
years of age and older. TCE volunteers
Publication 517 (2025)

specialize in answering questions about
pensions and retirement-related issues
unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE or
download the free IRS2Go app for information on free tax return preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed
Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/
MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms,
which can be completed online and then
e-filed regardless of income.
Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.
• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant
(IRS.gov/EITCAssistant) determines if
you’re eligible for the earned income credit
(EITC).
• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN)
helps you get an employer identification
number (EIN) at no cost.
• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/
W4App) makes it easier for you to estimate
the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck.
This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay,
or tax due.
• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
(IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures the amount you
can claim if you itemize deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get
up-to-date information on current
events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you

get answers to some of the most common
tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant,
a tool that will ask you questions and,
based on your input, provide answers on a
number of tax topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions,
and publications. You will find details on
the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your
questions.
• You may also be able to access tax information in your e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return?
There are various types of tax return preparers,
including enrolled agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others who don’t have professional credentials. If
you choose to have someone prepare your tax
return, choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax
preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs
the return, you’re ultimately responsible
CAUTION for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare
your return and for the accuracy of every item
reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare
tax returns for others should have a thorough
understanding of tax matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips
for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

!

Employers can register to use Business
Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/
employer for fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected
Wage and Tax Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability
company (LLC), you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a
business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia
to see the various social media tools the IRS
uses to share the latest information on tax
changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and
services. At the IRS, privacy and security are
our highest priority. We use these tools to share
public information with you. Don’t post your social security number (SSN) or other confidential
information on social media sites. Always protect your identity when using any social networking site.

15

The following IRS YouTube channels provide
short, informative videos on various tax-related
topics in English and ASL.
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service.
The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers
needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers
(TACs), most IRS offices, and every VITA/TCE
tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian, and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call
833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can
answer questions related to current and future
accessibility products and services available in
alternative media formats (for example,
braille-ready, large print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to
your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds,
or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000,
Alternative Media Preference, or Form
9000(SP) allows you to elect to receive certain
types of written correspondence in the following
formats.
• Standard Print.

•
•
•
•
•

Large Print.
Braille.
Audio (MP3).
Plain Text File (TXT).
Braille-Ready File (BRF).

Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to
IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print all
the forms, instructions, and publications you
may need. Or you can go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly
forms that require signatures. You’ll have the option to submit your form(s) online or download a
copy for mailing. You’ll need scans of your
documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in
eBook format. Download and view most tax
publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on mobile devices as
eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s
iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated eBook readers, and
eBook functionality may not operate as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to se-

16

curely access information about your federal tax
account.
• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
• See payment plan details or apply for a
new payment plan.
• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including key
data from your most recent tax return, and
transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from
the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests
from tax professionals.
Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, you can access a variety of information to help you during the filing season. You
can get a transcript, review your most recently
filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at
IRS.gov/Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional submit an authorization request to access your individual taxpayer IRS OLA. For
more
information,
go
to
IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest
way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and
choose direct deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your
financial account. Direct deposit also avoids the
possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS.
Eight in 10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank or credit
union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related
identity theft issues.
• Tax-related identity theft happens when
someone steals your personal information
to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with tax-

payers by email, text messages (including
shortened links), telephone calls, or social
media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information
on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and
businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of
tax-related identity theft, you can learn
what steps you should take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP
PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their
SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return

with your SSN. To learn more, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your
mobile device to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at
800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before
mid-February for returns that claimed
CAUTION the EITC or the additional child tax
credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund,
not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends
paying electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list
below. Payments of U.S. tax must be remitted to
the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not
accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the
following options.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank
account. It’s free and secure, and no
sign-in is required. You can change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.
• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet:
Choose an approved payment processor
to pay online or by phone.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a
payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or
through a tax professional.
• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System:
This is the best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment
to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes
with cash at a participating retail store.
• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do
same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for
availability, cost, and time frames.
Note. The IRS uses the latest encryption
technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by phone, or from a
mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe
and secure. Paying electronically is quick and
easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment agreement
(IRS.gov/OPA) to meet your tax obligation
in monthly installments if you can’t pay
your taxes in full today. Once you complete
the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier
to see if you can settle your tax debt for
less than the full amount you owe. For
more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/
1040X for information and updates.
Publication 517 (2025)

Checking the status of your amended return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status
of Form 1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date
you filed your amended return for it to
CAUTION show up in our system, and processing
it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter
you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find
additional information about responding to an
IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able
to use the Document Upload Tool to respond
digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required documents online
through IRS.gov. For more information, go to
IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP
(Form 1040), Request for Change in Language
Preference, to state a preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications
from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in the requested language. The IRS’s
commitment to LEP taxpayers is part of a
multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive communications, including notices and letters, in
English until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind,
many questions can be answered on IRS.gov
without visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp
for the topics people ask about most. If you still
need help, TACs provide tax help when a tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All
TACs now provide service by appointment, so
you’ll know in advance that you can get the

Publication 517 (2025)

service you need without long wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or, on the
IRS2Go app, under the Stay Connected tab,
choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
——————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) Is Here To
Help You

What Is the Taxpayer Advocate
Service?

problem is causing financial difficulty, if
you’ve tried and been unable to resolve
your issue with the IRS, or if you believe an
IRS system, process, or procedure just
isn’t working as it should.
• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov.
The site can help you with common tax issues and situations, such as what to do if
you make a mistake on your return or if you
get a notice from the IRS.
• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at
www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization within the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS). TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS, makes administrative and legislative recommendations to prevent
or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is
treated fairly and that you know and understand
your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We
are Your Voice at the IRS.

TAS has offices in every state, the District of
Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To find your local
advocate’s number:
• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.

How Can TAS Help Me?

The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic
rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with
the IRS. Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Taxpayer-Rights for more information about the
rights, what they mean to you, and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter
with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer
rights and ensure the IRS is administering the
tax law in a fair and equitable way.

TAS can help you resolve problems that you
haven’t been able to resolve with the IRS on
your own. Always try to resolve your problem
with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then come to
TAS. Our services are free.
• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You
may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS

What Are My Rights as a
Taxpayer?

17

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A
Accountable plan 8
Additional Medicare Tax 3, 9
Administrators 10
American Samoa 5, 8
Assistance (See Tax help)

C
Cantors 10
Christian Science:
Practitioners 2, 4-6
Readers 2, 4, 5
Common-law employee 4
Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands (CNMI) 5, 8
Credit:
Earned income 13
Retirement savings
contributions 12

FICA:
Earnings covered 2
Effective date of exemption 7
Election to exclude church
employees 4
Filing requirements for most
taxpayers 11
Foreign earned income 10
Form:
1040 or 1040-SR 10-12
1040-ES 11
1040-X 7
4029 6, 7, 12
4361 6, 12
8959 3, 9
941 7
943 7
944 7
SS-8 4

G

Deduction for self-employment
tax 11

Gross income:
Amounts included in 8
Amounts not included in 8
Guam 5, 8

E

H

D

Earned income credit 13
Effective date:
Exemption from FICA taxes 7
Exemption from self-employment
(SE) tax 6, 7
Employment status 4
Estimated tax 11
Exclusion, foreign earned
income 10
Exemption
Form 4029 6, 7
Form 4361 6
From FICA taxes 7
From self-employment (SE)
tax 5-7

F
Federal Insurance Contributions
Act (See FICA)

18

Health insurance costs,
deductibility 10
Home ownership, exclusion of
allowance 9, 10
House or parsonage, fair rental
value 9

I
Income tax
Estimated tax 11
Income and expenses 9-11
Withholding 11
Individual retirement
arrangements (IRAs) 12

K
Keogh (H.R.10) plans 12

Religious workers 2, 4
Rental allowance 8-10
Resident aliens 5
Lay employees (See Religious
Retired ministers 10
workers)
Retirement savings
Living abroad 8, 10
arrangements 12
Retirement savings contributions
M
credit 12
Members of recognized religious Royalty income from books 5
sects 2, 7
Members of religious orders 2,
S
4-7, 10
SECA 2, 3
Ministerial services, exemption
Sects, members of recognized
for
religious 2, 7
Christian Science practitioners
Self-Employment Contributions
and readers 5
Act (See SECA)
Members of religious orders 5
Self-employment
tax
Ministers 5
Deduction 11
Ministers 2, 4-7, 9-11
Exemption 5-7, 12
Health insurance costs of 10
Maximum earnings 8
Retired 10
Nonfarm optional method 9
Missionary team, married
Refunds of 7
couple 8
Regular method 7
Self-employment, net earnings
N
from 7-9
Nonaccountable plan 8
SIMPLE plan 12
Nonfarm optional method 9
Simplified employee pension
Nonresident aliens 5
(SEP) plan 12
Social security coverage 3

L

O

Offerings and fees 8, 9
Overseas duty 8, 10

T

Parsonage allowance 8-10
Publications (See Tax help)
Puerto Rico 5, 8

Tax help 15
Tax-free income, deductibility of
expenses 10
Tax-sheltered annuity plans 12
Teachers 10
Theological students 10
Traveling evangelists 10

Q

U

P

Qualified retirement plan 12

R
Refunds, self-employment tax 7
Reimbursements 8
Religious orders, members of 2,
4-7, 10

U.S. citizens 5
U.S. Virgin Islands 5, 8

V
Vow of poverty 2, 4-6, 10

Publication 517 (2025)

