Future Developments
Publication 974

Premium Tax
Credit (PTC)
For use in preparing

2025 Returns

For the latest information about developments related to
Pub. 974, such as legislation enacted after it was
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub974.

What’s New
Changes to “coverage month” definition for PTC/
APTC. As of January 1, 2025, a month may be considered a coverage month, and a PTC may be allowed for the
month, if a portion of the enrollment premium for the
month is unpaid but the amount of the premium paid, including by advance credit payments, is sufficient to avoid
termination of the coverage under one of the scenarios
described under Enrollment premiums. See Enrollment
premiums, later, for more information.
Reporting entities no longer required to send minimum essential coverage (MEC) forms automatically.
In certain circumstances, reporting entities aren’t required
to send tax forms to covered individuals showing proof of
MEC (Forms 1095-B and 1095-C) unless a form is requested. If requested by the individual, the form must be
provided by January 31 or 30 days after the date of request, whichever is later.

Reminders

Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Jan 12, 2026

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

New employer-coverage affordability rule for family
members of employees. For tax years beginning after
2022, for purposes of determining eligibility for the PTC,
affordability of employer coverage for an employee’s
spouse or dependent eligible to enroll in the employer
coverage is no longer based on the employee’s share of
the premium to cover only the employee. Affordability of
the employer coverage for these family members is now
based on the portion of the annual premium the employee
must pay for coverage of the employee and these other
family members.
Applicable federal poverty line percentages. For tax
year 2025, taxpayers with household income that exceeds
400% of the federal poverty line for their family size may
be allowed a PTC.
Qualified small employer health reimbursement arrangement (QSEHRA). Under a QSEHRA, an eligible
employer can reimburse eligible employees for medical
expenses, including premiums for Marketplace health insurance. If you were provided a QSEHRA, your employer
should have reported the annual permitted benefit in
box 12 of your Form W-2 with code FF. If the QSEHRA is
considered affordable coverage for a month, no premium
tax credit (PTC) is allowed for the month. If the QSEHRA
is not considered affordable coverage for a month, you
may still be eligible for the PTC but you must reduce the
monthly PTC (but not below -0-) by the monthly permitted
benefit amount. For more information, see Qualified Small
Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangement, later.

Publication 974 (2025) Catalog Number 66452Q
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

Report changes in circumstances when you re-enroll
in coverage and during the year. If APTC is being paid
for an individual in your tax family (defined later) and you
have had certain changes in circumstances (see the examples below), it is important that you report them to the
Marketplace where you enrolled in coverage. Reporting
changes in circumstances promptly will allow the Marketplace to adjust your APTC to reflect the PTC you are estimated to be able to take on your tax return. Adjusting your
APTC when you re-enroll in coverage and during the year
can help you avoid owing tax when you file your tax return.
Changes that you should report to the Marketplace include the following.

• Changes in household income.
• Moving to a different address.
• Gaining or losing eligibility for other health care coverage.

• Gaining, losing, or other changes to employment.
• Birth or adoption.
• Marriage or divorce.
• Other changes affecting the composition of your tax
family.

This publication also provides additional instructions for
taxpayers in the following special situations.

• Taxpayers who take the PTC and who are filing a separate return from their spouses because of domestic
abuse or spousal abandonment.

• Taxpayers who take the PTC and who are also provided a QSEHRA.

• Taxpayers who need to calculate the PTC and APTC
for a policy that covered an individual not lawfully
present in the United States.

• Taxpayers who need to determine the applicable second lowest cost silver plan (SLCSP) premium.

• Taxpayers who need to allocate policy amounts for individuals not included in any tax family.

• Taxpayers who need to allocate policy amounts because one qualified health plan covers individuals
from three or more tax families in the same month.

• Taxpayers who married during the tax year and want
to use an alternative PTC calculation that may lower
their taxes.

• Self-employed taxpayers who wish to take the PTC
and the self-employed health insurance deduction.

For more information on how to report a change in
circumstances to the Marketplace, go to HealthCare.gov
or your state Marketplace website.
Health insurance options. If you need health coverage,
go to HealthCare.gov to learn about health insurance options that are available for you and your family, how to purchase health insurance, and how you might qualify to get
financial assistance with the cost of insurance.
Additional information. For additional information about
the tax provisions of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), including the individual shared responsibility provisions and
the PTC, go to IRS.gov/Affordable-Care-Act/Individualsand-Families or call the IRS Healthcare Hotline for ACA
questions (800-919-0452).
Photographs of missing children. The Internal Revenue Service is a proud partner with the National Center for
Missing & Exploited Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of
missing children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank.
You can help bring these children home by looking at the
photographs
and
calling
1-800-THE-LOST
(1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.

Introduction

Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.

This publication covers the following general topics, relating to the PTC, which are also covered in the Form 8962
instructions.

• What is the PTC?
• Who must file Form 8962.
• Who can take the PTC. (See Figure A, later.)
2

This publication also provides additional information to
help you determine if your health care coverage is MEC.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.

Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.
Questions about Form 1095-A, Health Insurance
Marketplace Statement. If you or a member of your tax
Publication 974 (2025)

family was enrolled in a qualified health plan through a
Marketplace in 2025, you should have received a Form
1095-A by early February 2026. Contact your Marketplace
if you do not receive a Form 1095-A or if you have questions about the accuracy of your Form 1095-A.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Form (and Instructions)
1095-A Health Insurance Marketplace Statement
1095-A

1095-B Health Coverage
1095-B

1095-C Employer-Provided Health Insurance Offer
and Coverage
1095-C

7206 Self-Employed Insurance Deduction
7206

8962 Premium Tax Credit (PTC)
8962

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for
information about getting publications and forms.

What Is the Premium Tax Credit
(PTC)?
Premium tax credit (PTC). The PTC is a tax credit for
certain people who enroll, or whose family member enrolls, in a qualified health plan offered through a Marketplace. The credit provides financial assistance to pay the
premiums for the qualified health plan by reducing the
amount of tax you owe, giving you a refund, or increasing
your refund amount. You must file Form 8962 to compute
and take the PTC on your tax return.
Advance payments of the premium tax credit (APTC).
The APTC is a payment made during the year to your insurance provider that pays for part or all of the premiums
for a qualified health plan covering you or an individual in
your tax family. Your APTC eligibility is based on the Marketplace’s estimate of the PTC you will be able to take on
your tax return. If APTC was paid for you or an individual in
your tax family, you must file Form 8962 to reconcile (compare) this APTC with your PTC. If the APTC is more than
your PTC, you have excess APTC and you must repay the
excess, subject to certain limitations. If the APTC is less
than the PTC, you can get a credit for the difference, which
reduces your tax payment or increases your refund.
Changes in circumstances. The Marketplace determined your eligibility for, and the amount of, your 2025
APTC using projections of your income and the number of
individuals you certified to the Marketplace would be in
your tax family (yourself, your spouse, and your dependents) when you enrolled in a qualified health plan. If this
information changed during 2025 and you did not
promptly report it to the Marketplace, the amount of APTC
paid may be substantially different from the amount of
PTC you can take on your tax return. See Report changes
in circumstances when you re-enroll in coverage and durPublication 974 (2025)

ing the year, earlier, for changes that can affect the
amount of your PTC.

Who Must File Form 8962
You must file Form 8962 with your income tax return (Form
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR) if any of the following apply
to you.

• You are taking the PTC.
• APTC was paid for you or another individual in your
tax family.

• APTC was paid for an individual you told the Market-

place would be in your tax family and neither you nor
anyone else included that individual in a tax family.
See Individual you enrolled who is not included in a
tax family under Lines 12 Through 23 in the Form
8962 instructions.

If any of the circumstances above apply to you, you
must file an income tax return and attach Form 8962 even
if you are not otherwise required to file. You must use
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. For help in determining
which of these forms to file, see the Instructions for Form
1040 or the Instructions for Form 1040-NR.
Caution: If you are filing Form 8962, you cannot file Form
1040-SS.
If someone else enrolled an individual in your tax family
in coverage, and APTC was paid for that individual’s coverage, you must file Form 8962 to reconcile the APTC. You
need to obtain a copy of the Form 1095-A from the person
who enrolled the individual.
Tip: If you are claimed as a dependent, the person who
claims you will file Form 8962 to take the PTC and, if necessary, repay excess APTC for your coverage. You do not
need to file Form 8962.

Who Can Take the PTC
You can take the PTC for 2025 if you meet the conditions
under (1), (2), and (3) below.
1. For at least 1 month of the year, all of the following
were true.
a. An individual in your tax family was enrolled in a
qualified health plan offered through the Marketplace on the first day of the month.
b. That individual was not eligible for MEC for the
month, other than individual market coverage. An
individual is generally considered eligible for MEC
for the month only if they were eligible for every
day of the month (see Minimum Essential Coverage, later).
c. The portion of the enrollment premiums (described later) for the month for which you are responsible was paid by the due date of your tax return
3

(not including extensions), the entire premium is
covered by APTC, or the amount of the premium
paid for the month is sufficient to avoid termination
of the individual’s coverage for that month under
one of the scenarios described under Enrollment
premiums, later. However, if you became eligible
for APTC because of a successful eligibility appeal
and you retroactively enrolled in the plan, then the
portion of the enrollment premium for which you
are responsible must be paid on or before the
120th day following the date of the appeals decision.
2. No one can claim you as a dependent for the year.
3. You are an applicable taxpayer for 2025. To be an applicable taxpayer, you must meet all of the following
requirements.
a. Your household income for 2025 is at least 100%
of the federal poverty line for your family size (see
Line 4 in the Form 8962 instructions). However,
having household income below 100% of the federal poverty line will not disqualify you from taking
the PTC if you meet certain requirements described under Household income below 100% of the
federal poverty line under Line 5 in the Form 8962
instructions.
b. If you were married at the end of 2025, you must
generally file a joint return. However, filing a separate return from your spouse will not disqualify you
from being an applicable taxpayer if you meet certain requirements described under Married taxpayers, later.
You are not entitled to the PTC for health coverage for
an individual for any period during which the individual is
not lawfully present in the United States.
For additional requirements and more details, see Applicable taxpayer, later.

Terms You May Need To Know
The terms defined below are generally the same as those
in the Form 8962 instructions. However, additional information is provided below on what documentation to keep
if you are a victim of domestic abuse or spousal abandonment, and on MEC, later.
Tax family. For purposes of the PTC, your tax family consists of the following individuals.

• You, if you file a tax return for the year and you can’t be
claimed as a dependent on someone else’s 2025 tax
return.

• Your spouse if filing jointly and they can’t be claimed
as a dependent on someone else’s 2025 tax return.

• Your dependents whom you claim on your 2025 tax return. If you are filing Form 1040-NR, you should include your dependents in your tax family only if you
are a U.S. national; a resident of Canada, Mexico, or

4

South Korea; or a resident of India who was a student
or business apprentice.
Your family size equals the number of qualifying individuals in your tax family (including yourself).
Note: Listing your dependents by name and social security number (SSN) or individual taxpayer identification
number (ITIN) on your tax return is the same as claiming
them as a dependent. If you have more than four dependents, see the Instructions for Form 1040 or the Instructions
for Form 1040-NR.
Household income. For purposes of the PTC, household income is the modified adjusted gross income (modified AGI) of you and your spouse (if filing a joint return)
(see Line 2a in the Form 8962 instructions) plus the modified AGI of each individual whom you claim as a dependent and who is required to file an income tax return because their income meets the income tax return filing
threshold (see Line 2b in the Form 8962 instructions).
Household income does not include the modified AGI of
those individuals whom you claim as dependents and who
are filing a 2025 return only to claim a refund of withheld
income tax or estimated tax.
Modified AGI. For purposes of the PTC, modified AGI
is the AGI on your tax return plus certain income that is not
subject to tax (foreign earned income, tax-exempt interest,
and the portion of social security benefits that is not taxable). Use Worksheet 1-1 and Worksheet 1-2 in the Form
8962 instructions to determine your modified AGI.
Taxpayer’s tax return including income of a dependent child. A taxpayer who includes the gross income of a dependent child on the taxpayer’s tax return
must include on Worksheet 1-2 the child’s tax-exempt interest and the portion of the child’s social security benefits
that is not taxable.
Coverage family. Your coverage family includes only individuals in your tax family who are enrolled in a qualified
health plan and are not eligible for MEC (other than individual market coverage). Also, an individual is in your coverage family for a particular month only if the portion of the
enrollment premiums (described later) for the month for
which you are responsible was paid by the due date of
your tax return (not including extensions), the entire premium was covered by APTC, or the amount of the premium paid for the month was sufficient to avoid termination of the individual’s coverage for that month described
under Enrollment premiums, later. The individuals included in your coverage family may change from month to
month. If an individual in your tax family is not enrolled in a
qualified health plan, or is enrolled in a qualified health
plan but is eligible for MEC (other than individual market
coverage), they are not part of your coverage family. Your
PTC is available to help you pay only for the coverage of
the individuals included in your coverage family.
Monthly credit amount. The monthly credit amount is
the amount of your tax credit for a month. Your PTC for the

Publication 974 (2025)

Figure A. Can You Take the PTC?

This flowchart can help you determine whether you can take the PTC. But do not rely on this flowchart alone. Be sure you
read Who Can Take the PTC, earlier, or in the Form 8962 instructions.
Start here
No

Were any of the individuals included in your tax family enrolled in a qualified
health plan through the Marketplace for at least 1 month during 2025?
Yes
No

Were any of these individuals eligible for MEC (other than individual
market coverage) for the months they were enrolled in the qualified health
plan? (See Minimum Essential Coverage, later.)

Can someone else claim you as a dependent
on another tax return for 2025?
No

Yes

Were all of these individuals eligible for MEC for
all of the months they were enrolled in the
qualified health plan?

No

Yes

Yes

Were the premiums paid by the due date of
your tax return (not including extensions)?
(A different due date applies in the case of a
successful eligibility appeal. See Enrollment
premiums.)

You cannot take the PTC.

No

Yes
No

Were you married at the end of 2025?
Yes

Yes

Are you and your spouse filing a joint return?
No

Yes

Do you meet the requirements for Married persons who live apart
under Head of Household in the Instructions for Form 1040, or
Married Filing Separately under Filing Status in the Form 1040-NR
instructions?

No
Are you a victim of domestic abuse or spousal abandonment?

No

Yes

Yes

Was your household income at least 100% of the federal poverty
line for your family size? (See the Form 8962 instructions.)
No

At the time of enrollment, did the Marketplace estimate that your household income would be at least
100% of the federal poverty line for your family size for 2025?
Yes
Yes

Was APTC paid for 1 or more months during 2025?

No
No

Yes

Was everyone in your tax family a U.S. citizen?
No

Was at least one individual enrolled in a qualified
health plan lawfully present in the United States?

You may be able to take the PTC.

No

Yes
Yes

Publication 974 (2025)

Was at least one enrolled individual ineligible
for Medicaid due to immigration status?

No

5

year is the sum of all of your monthly credit amounts. Your
credit amount for each month is the lesser of:

• The enrollment premiums (described next) for the

month for one or more qualified health plans in which
you or any individual in your tax family enrolled, or

• The amount of the monthly applicable SLCSP pre-

mium (described later) less your monthly contribution
amount (described later).

To qualify for a monthly credit amount, at least one individual in your tax family must be enrolled in a qualified
health plan on the first day of that month. Generally, if coverage in a qualified health plan began after the first day of
the month, you are not allowed a monthly credit amount
for the coverage for that month. However, if an individual
in your tax family enrolled in a qualified health plan in 2025
and the enrollment was effective on the date of the individual’s birth, adoption, or placement for adoption or in foster
care, or on the effective date of a court order placing the
individual with your family, the individual is treated as enrolled as of the first day of that month. Therefore, the individual may be a member of your tax family and coverage
family for the entire month for purposes of computing your
monthly credit amount.
However, if an individual in your tax family enrolled in a
qualified health plan in 2025 and the enrollment was effective on the date of the individual’s birth, adoption, or placement for adoption or in foster care, or on the effective date
of a court order placing the individual with your family, the
individual is treated as enrolled as of the first day of that
month. Therefore, the individual may be a member of your
tax family and coverage family for the entire month for purposes of computing your monthly credit amount.
Enrollment premiums. The enrollment premiums are
the total amount of the premiums for the month, reduced
by any premium amounts for that month that were refunded in the same tax year as the premium liability was incurred, for one or more qualified health plans in which any
individual in your tax family enrolled. Form 1095-A, Part III,
column A, reports the enrollment premiums.
You are generally not allowed a monthly credit amount
for the month if any part of that month’s enrollment premiums for which you are responsible that month has not
been paid by the due date of your tax return (not including
extensions), unless the amount of the premium paid for
the month is sufficient to avoid termination of the coverage
for that month and the month is described under one of
the following three scenarios:

• The first month of a grace period described in 45 CFR
156.270(d) for the plan enrollees;

• A month for which a premium payment threshold un-

der 45 CFR 155.400(g) has been met and for which
month the issuer of the qualified health plan provides
coverage; or

• A month for which a state department of insurance

has, during a declared emergency, issued an order
prohibiting the issuer of the qualified health plan from
terminating the coverage for the month regardless of
whether the full premium for the month is paid.

6

However, if you became eligible for APTC because of a
successful eligibility appeal and you retroactively enrolled
in the plan, the full enrollment premium is considered to
have been timely paid if the portion of the enrollment premium for which you are responsible is paid on or before
the 120th day following the date of the appeals decision.
Premiums another person pays on your behalf are treated
as paid by you.
For any months you were covered, did not pay your
share of the premiums, and are allowed a monthly credit
amount, the amount of the enrollment premiums for the
month you use to compute your monthly credit amount
must be reduced by any portion of the premium that is unpaid as of the unextended due date for filing your income
tax return for the tax year that includes the month.
Applicable SLCSP premium. The applicable SLCSP
premium is the second lowest cost silver plan premium offered through the Marketplace where you reside that applies to your coverage family (described earlier). The
SLCSP premium is not the same as your enrollment premium unless you enroll in the applicable SLCSP. Column
B of Form 1095-A, Part III, generally reports the applicable
SLCSP premium. If no APTC was paid for your coverage,
in column B of Form 1095-A, Part III, may be wrong or
blank or may report your applicable SLCSP premium
as -0-. Also, if you had a change in circumstances during
2025 that you did not report to the Marketplace, the
SLCSP premium reported in column B of Form 1095-A,
Part III, may be wrong. See Missing or incorrect SLCSP
premium on Form 1095-A under Line 10 in the Form 8962
instructions. In either case, you must determine your correct applicable SLCSP premium. You do not have to request a corrected Form 1095-A from the Marketplace. See
Determining the Premium for the Applicable Second Lowest Cost Silver Plan (SLCSP), later.
Monthly contribution amount. Your monthly contribution amount is used to calculate your monthly credit
amount. It is the amount of your household income you
would be responsible for paying as your share of premiums each month if you enrolled in the applicable SLCSP. It
is not based on the amount of premiums you paid out of
pocket during the year. You will compute your monthly
contribution amount in Part I of Form 8962.
Qualified health plan. For purposes of the PTC, a qualified health plan is a health insurance plan or policy purchased through a Marketplace at the bronze, silver, gold,
or platinum level. Throughout this publication, a qualified
health plan is also referred to as a “policy.” Catastrophic
health plans and stand-alone dental plans purchased
through the Marketplace, and all plans purchased through
the Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP), are
not qualified health plans for purposes of the PTC. Therefore, they do not qualify a taxpayer to take the PTC.
Applicable taxpayer. You must be an applicable taxpayer to take the PTC. Generally, you are an applicable
taxpayer if your household income for 2025 (described
earlier) is at least 100% of the federal poverty line for your
family size (provided in Tables 1-1, 1-2, and 1-3 in the
Publication 974 (2025)

Form 8962 instructions) and no one can claim you as a
dependent for 2025. In addition, if you were married at the
end of 2025, you must file a joint return to be an applicable
taxpayer unless you meet one of the exceptions described
under Married taxpayers, later.
For individuals with household income below 100% of
the federal poverty line, see Household income below
100% of the federal poverty line under Line 5 in the Form
8962 instructions. However, the exception described under Estimated household income at least 100% of the federal poverty line in the Form 8962 instructions does not
apply if, with intentional or reckless disregard for the facts,
you provide incorrect information to the Marketplace for
the year of coverage. You provide information with intentional disregard for the facts if you know that the information provided is inaccurate. You provide information with a
reckless disregard for the facts if you make little or no effort to determine whether the information provided is accurate and your lack of effort to provide accurate information
is substantially different from what a reasonable person
would do under the circumstances.
Individuals who are incarcerated. Individuals who are
incarcerated (other than pending disposition of charges,
for example, awaiting trial) are not eligible for coverage in
a qualified health plan through a Marketplace. However,
these individuals may be applicable taxpayers and take
the PTC for the coverage of individuals in their tax families
who are eligible for coverage in a qualified health plan.
Individuals who are not lawfully present. Individuals
who are not lawfully present in the United States are not
eligible for the PTC for their coverage in a qualified health
plan through a Marketplace. They cannot take the PTC for
their own coverage and are not eligible for the repayment
limitations in Table 5 (in the Form 8962 instructions) for
APTC paid for their own coverage. However, these individuals may be applicable taxpayers and take the PTC for the
coverage of individuals in their tax families, such as their
children, who are lawfully present and eligible for coverage in a qualified health plan. For more information about
who is treated as lawfully present for this purpose, go to
HealthCare.gov. See Individuals Not Lawfully Present in
the United States Enrolled in a Qualified Health Plan, later,
for more information on reconciling APTC when an unlawfully present person is enrolled individually or with lawfully
present family members.
Married taxpayers. If you are considered married for
federal income tax purposes, you must file a joint return
with your spouse to take the PTC unless one of the two
exceptions below applies to you.
You are not considered married for federal income tax
purposes if you are divorced or legally separated according to your state law under a decree of divorce or separate
maintenance. In that case, you cannot file a joint return but
may be able to take the PTC on your separate return. See
Pub. 501, Dependents, Standard Deduction, and Filing Information.
If you are considered married for federal income tax
purposes, you may be eligible to take the PTC without filing a joint return if one of the two exceptions below applies
Publication 974 (2025)

to you. If Exception 1 applies, you can file a return using
head of household or single filing status and take the PTC.
If Exception 2 applies, you are treated as married but can
take the PTC with the filing status of married filing separately.
Exception 1—certain married persons living apart.
You may file your return as if you are unmarried and take
the PTC if one of the following applies to you.

• You file a separate return from your spouse on Form

1040 or 1040-SR because you meet the requirements
for Married persons who live apart under Head of
Household in the Instructions for Form 1040.

• You file as single on your Form 1040-NR because you
meet the requirements for Married persons who live
apart under Married Filing Separately in the Instructions for Form 1040-NR.

Exception 2—victim of domestic abuse or spousal
abandonment. If you are a victim of domestic abuse or
spousal abandonment, you can file a return as married filing separately and take the PTC for 2025 if all of the following apply to you.

• You are living apart from your spouse at the time you
file your 2025 tax return.

• You are unable to file a joint return because you are a
victim of domestic abuse (described next) or spousal
abandonment (described below).

• You check the box on your Form 8962 to certify that

you are a victim of domestic abuse or spousal abandonment.

• You have not used this exception to take the PTC in
each of 2022, 2023, and 2024.

Domestic abuse. Domestic abuse includes physical,
psychological, sexual, or emotional abuse, including efforts to control, isolate, humiliate, and intimidate, or to undermine the victim’s ability to reason independently. All the
facts and circumstances are considered in determining
whether an individual is abused, including the effects of alcohol or drug abuse by the victim’s spouse. Depending on
the facts and circumstances, abuse of an individual’s child
or other family member living in the household may constitute abuse of the individual. If you have concerns about
your safety, please consider contacting the confidential
24-hour National Domestic Violence Hotline at
1-800-799-SAFE (7233), or 1-800-787-3224 (TTY), or
1-855-812-1001 (video phone, only for deaf callers). For
additional information and resources, see Pub. 3865, Tax
Information for Survivors of Domestic Abuse, available at
IRS.gov/Pub3865; and Part V of Form 8857, Request for
Innocent Spouse Relief, available at IRS.gov/Form8857.
Spousal abandonment. A taxpayer is a victim of
spousal abandonment for a tax year if, taking into account
all facts and circumstances, the taxpayer is unable to locate their spouse after reasonable diligence.
Records of domestic abuse and spousal abandonment. If you checked the box on line A, in the upper-right
corner of Form 8962 indicating that you are eligible for the
7

PTC despite having a filing status of married filing separately, you should keep records relating to your situation,
like with all aspects of your tax return. What you have
available may depend on your circumstances. However,
the following list provides some examples of records that
may be useful. (Do not attach these records to your tax return.)

• Protective and/or restraining order.
• Police report.
• Doctor’s report or letter.
• A statement from someone who was aware of, or who
witnessed, the abuse or the results of the abuse. The
statement should be notarized if possible.

• A statement from someone who knows of the aban-

donment. The statement should be notarized if possible.

Married filing separately. If you file as married filing
separately and are not a victim of domestic abuse or
spousal abandonment (see Exception 2 under Married
taxpayers, earlier), then you are not an applicable taxpayer and you cannot take the PTC. You must generally
repay all of the APTC paid for a qualified health plan that
covered only individuals in your tax family. If the policy
also covered at least one individual in your spouse’s tax
family, you must generally repay half of the APTC paid for
the policy. See Line 9 in the Form 8962 instructions. However, the amount of APTC you have to repay may be limited. See Line 28 in the Form 8962 instructions.

Note: Your MEC may be reported to you on Form 1095-A,
1095-B, or 1095-C.
In certain circumstances, reporting entities aren’t required to send tax forms to covered individuals showing
proof of MEC (Forms 1095-B and 1095-C) unless a form
is requested. If requested by the individual, the form must
be provided by January 31 or 30 days after the date of request, whichever is later.
MEC eligibility when Marketplace does not discontinue APTC. If an individual in your tax family is enrolled
in a qualified health plan for which APTC was made and
the individual is or will soon become eligible for other
MEC, you must notify the Marketplace about the other
MEC and that the APTC for the individual’s coverage
should be discontinued. If the Marketplace does not discontinue APTC for the first calendar month beginning after
the month you notify the Marketplace, the individual is
treated as eligible for the other MEC no earlier than the
first day of the second calendar month beginning after the
first month the individual may enroll in the other MEC. A
different rule applies to Medicaid and CHIP eligibility, discussed later under Government-Sponsored Programs.

Expatriate Health Plans

• Individual market coverage (including qualified health

In general, an expatriate health plan is certain health insurance coverage that is offered to foreign nationals who
are temporarily assigned for work in the United States,
U.S. residents who are temporarily working outside of the
United States, and certain nonemployees (such as students and missionaries) who are traveling internationally.
The health insurance coverage must generally offer a minimum level of benefits in the region in which the covered
individual is temporarily located and be offered by a qualifying expatriate health insurance issuer. An expatriate
health plan is considered employer-sponsored coverage
for a primary insured who receives it through their employer (and for that employee’s covered dependents). It is
considered individual market coverage for any other primary insured.

• Most coverage through government-sponsored pro-

Individual Market Coverage

Minimum Essential Coverage
(MEC)
Under the health care law, certain health coverage is
called MEC. You generally cannot take the PTC for an individual in your tax family for any month that the individual is
eligible for MEC, except for individual market coverage
(defined below). MEC includes the following.
plans).

grams (including Medicaid coverage, Medicare Part A
or C, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP),
certain benefits for veterans and their families, TRICARE, and health coverage for Peace Corps volunteers).

• Most types of employer-sponsored coverage.
• Grandfathered health plans.
• Other health coverage designated by the Department
of Health and Human Services (HHS) as MEC.

Tip: MEC does not include coverage consisting solely of
excepted benefits. Excepted benefits include vision and
dental coverage not part of a comprehensive health insur-

8

ance plan, workers’ compensation coverage, and coverage limited to a specified disease or illness.

A health plan offered in the individual market is health insurance coverage provided to an individual by a health insurance issuer licensed by a state, including a qualified
health plan offered through the Marketplace. Even though
these plans are MEC, eligibility for individual market coverage does not prevent an individual from qualifying for the
PTC for coverage in a qualified health plan purchased
through the Marketplace.
Individual market coverage also includes coverage under certain expatriate health plans offered to students and
religious missionaries traveling internationally. See Expatriate Health Plans, earlier.

Publication 974 (2025)

Government-Sponsored Programs
The following government-sponsored programs are MEC.
1. Medicare Part A coverage.
2. Medicare Advantage plans.
3. Medicaid, except for the following programs.
a. Optional coverage of family planning services.
b. Optional coverage of tuberculosis-related services.
c. Coverage of pregnancy-related services in states
that do not provide full Medicaid benefits on the
basis of pregnancy.
d. Coverage limited to the treatment of emergency
medical conditions.
e. Coverage of medically needy individuals (except
for coverage for medically needy individuals that
HHS has designated as MEC—see Other Coverage Designated by the Department of Health and
Human Services, later).
f. Coverage under a section 1115 demonstration
waiver program (except for coverage under a section 1115 demonstration program that HHS has
designated as MEC—see Other Coverage Designated by the Department of Health and Human
Services, later).
Call your state Medicaid office if you have any
questions about the coverage you have.
4. CHIP, except certain CHIP coverage for pregnancy
services. (Certain coverage often called a CHIP
buy-in program is not considered a government-sponsored program and is discussed later under Other
Coverage Designated by the Department of Health
and Human Services.)
5. Coverage under the TRICARE program, except for the
following programs.
a. Coverage on a space-available basis in a military
treatment facility for individuals who are not eligible for TRICARE coverage for private sector care.
b. Coverage for a line-of-duty-related injury, illness,
or disease for individuals who have left active duty.
6. The following coverage administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
a. Coverage consisting of the medical benefits package for eligible veterans.
b. Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA).
c. Comprehensive health care for children suffering
from spina bifida who are the children of Vietnam
veterans and veterans of covered service in Korea.

9. Coverage through a Basic Health Program (BHP)
standard health plan.
In general, you cannot get the PTC for your coverage in
a qualified health plan if you are eligible for government-sponsored MEC. You are generally considered eligible for a government-sponsored program if you meet the
criteria for coverage under the program. But see Exceptions, later. However, you will not lose the PTC for your
coverage until the first day of the first full month you can
receive benefits under the government-sponsored program. If you can be covered under a government-sponsored program, you must complete the requirements necessary to receive benefits (for example, submitting an
application or providing required information) by the last
day of the third full calendar month following the event that
establishes eligibility (for example, becoming eligible for
Medicare when you turn 65). If you do not complete the
necessary requirements in this time, you will lose the PTC
for your coverage in a qualified health plan beginning with
the first day of the fourth calendar month following the
event that makes you eligible for the government coverage.
Example 1. Ellen was enrolled in a qualified health
plan with APTC. She turned 65 on June 3 and became eligible for Medicare. Ellen must apply to Medicare to receive benefits. She applied to Medicare in September and
was eligible to receive Medicare benefits beginning on
December 1. Ellen completed the requirements necessary
to receive Medicare benefits by September 30 (the last
day of the third full calendar month after the event that established her eligibility, reaching age 65). She was eligible
for Medicare coverage on December 1, the first day of the
first full month that she could receive benefits. Thus, Ellen
can get the PTC for her coverage in the qualified health
plan for January through November. Beginning in December, Ellen cannot get the PTC for her coverage in the qualified health plan because she is eligible for Medicare.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that Ellen did not apply for the Medicare coverage
by September 30. Ellen is considered eligible for government-sponsored coverage beginning on October 1. She
can get the PTC for her coverage for January through
September. She cannot get the PTC for her coverage in a
qualified health plan as of October 1, the first day of the
fourth month after she reached age 65.
Exceptions. While you are generally considered eligible
for government-sponsored MEC (and are ineligible for the
PTC) if you are able to enroll in that coverage, you are
considered eligible for government-sponsored coverage
under the following programs only if you are enrolled in
the program.
1. A veteran’s health care program listed in (6), earlier.
2. The following TRICARE programs.
a. The Continued Health Care Benefit Program.

7. Health coverage provided to Peace Corps volunteers.

b. Retired Reserve.

8. Refugee Medical Assistance.

c. Young Adult.

Publication 974 (2025)

9

d. Reserve Select.
3. Medicaid coverage for comprehensive pregnancy-related services and CHIP coverage based on pregnancy, if the individual is enrolled in a qualified health
plan at the time the individual becomes eligible for
Medicaid or CHIP.
4. Coverage under Medicare Part A for which the individual must pay a premium.
In addition, an individual is considered eligible for MEC
under a Medicaid or Medicare program for which eligibility
requires a determination of disability, blindness, or illness
only when the responsible agency makes a favorable eligibility determination.
Retroactive coverage. If APTC is being paid for coverage in a qualified health plan and you become eligible for
government-sponsored coverage that is effective retroactively (such as Medicaid or CHIP), you will not retroactively lose the PTC for your coverage. You can get the PTC
for your coverage until the first day of the first calendar
month after you are approved for the government coverage.
Example. In November, Freda enrolled in a qualified
health plan for the following year and got APTC for her
coverage. Freda lost her part-time job and on April 10 applied for coverage under the Medicaid program. Freda’s
application was approved on May 15, with Medicaid coverage retroactively effective April 1. For purposes of the
PTC, Freda is considered eligible for government-sponsored coverage on June 1, the first day of the first calendar month after her application was approved. Freda may
be eligible for the PTC for January through May.
Termination for nonpayment of premiums. If Medicaid or CHIP coverage for you or a family member is terminated due to nonpayment of premiums, you cannot get
the PTC for the coverage of that individual (for the remainder of the year of the termination).
Determining eligibility for Medicaid or CHIP at enrollment. An individual is treated as ineligible for Medicaid,
CHIP, and similar programs (such as a BHP) for the period
of coverage under a qualified health plan if, when the individual enrolled in the qualified health plan, the Marketplace determined that the individual was ineligible for
Medicaid or CHIP based on the applicable Medicaid and
CHIP income standards. However, this exception does not
apply if you, or the individual you are including in your tax
family, with intentional or reckless disregard for the facts,
provided incorrect information to the Marketplace for the
year of coverage. You provide information with intentional
disregard for the facts if you know that the information provided is inaccurate. You provide information with a reckless disregard for the facts if you make little or no effort to
determine whether the information provided is accurate
and your lack of effort to provide accurate information is
substantially different from what a reasonable person
would do under the circumstances.

Example. In November, Catelyn enrolled in a qualified
health plan for the following year and got APTC for her
coverage. The Marketplace determined that Catelyn was
ineligible for Medicaid and estimated that her household
income will be 140% of the federal poverty line for her
family size for purposes of determining APTC. During the
year, Catelyn lost her job and her household income for
2025 is 130% of the federal poverty line (within the Medicaid income threshold). For purposes of the PTC, Catelyn
is treated as ineligible for Medicaid for 2025. Catelyn may
be eligible for the PTC for the entire year.
Medicaid or CHIP eligibility when Marketplace does
not discontinue APTC. If a determination is made that
an individual who is enrolled in a qualified health plan for
which APTC is made is eligible for Medicaid or CHIP but
the Marketplace does not discontinue APTC for the first
calendar month beginning after the eligibility determination, the individual is treated as eligible for Medicaid or
CHIP no earlier than the first day of the second calendar
month beginning after the eligibility determination.

Employer-Sponsored Plans
The following employer-sponsored plans are MEC.
1. Group health insurance coverage for employees under:
a. An insured plan or coverage offered in the small or
large group market within a state;
b. A governmental plan, such as the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program; or
c. A grandfathered health plan offered in a group
market.
2. A self-insured group health plan for employees.
3. Coverage under certain expatriate health plans for
employees (discussed earlier).
4. The Nonappropriated Fund Health Benefits Program
of the Department of Defense.
In general, these employer-sponsored plans may also
include retiree or COBRA coverage.
Employer-sponsored plans that are MEC are also referred to as “eligible employer-sponsored plans.”
Exceptions. The following paragraphs discuss when employer-sponsored plans are not considered MEC and the
circumstances in which you may be eligible for the PTC
even if you have an offer of coverage under an employer-sponsored plan.
Excepted benefits not treated as MEC. Employer-sponsored health coverage that is limited to excepted benefits is not MEC. Excepted benefits include
stand-alone vision and dental plans, workers’ compensation coverage, and coverage limited to a specified disease
or illness.
Affordability and minimum value. Even if you had
the opportunity to enroll in coverage offered by your

10

Publication 974 (2025)

employer that qualifies as MEC, you are considered eligible for an employer-sponsored plan (and cannot get the
PTC for your coverage in a qualified health plan) only if the
employer-sponsored coverage is affordable (defined later)
and the coverage provides minimum value (defined later).
Your tax family members may also be unable to get the
PTC for coverage in a qualified health plan for months they
were eligible to enroll in employer-sponsored coverage offered to them by your employer but only if the coverage
qualifies as MEC and was affordable and provided minimum value. In addition, if you or your family member enrolls in the employer coverage that qualifies as MEC, the
individual enrolled cannot get the PTC for coverage in a
qualified health plan, even if the employer coverage is not
affordable or does not provide minimum value.
Waiting periods and other periods without access
to benefits. You are not considered eligible for employer
coverage, and can get the PTC for your coverage in a
qualified health plan if you are otherwise eligible, for a
month when you cannot receive benefits under the employer coverage (for example, you are in a waiting period
before the employer coverage becomes effective). However, if you could have enrolled in employer coverage that
is MEC and is affordable and provides minimum value and
you did not enroll during an enrollment period, you cannot
get the PTC for your coverage in a qualified health plan for
the remainder of the plan year to which the enrollment period related. If the enrollment period related to coverage
for more than 1 plan year, and you do not have another
opportunity to enroll in the employer coverage for plan
years following the initial plan year, you can take the PTC
for your coverage in a qualified health plan during those
later plan years, if you are otherwise eligible.
Coverage after employment ends. If your employment with an employer ends and you are offered employer
coverage by your former employer (for example, COBRA
or retiree coverage), you are considered eligible for that
employer coverage for PTC purposes only for the months
that you are enrolled in the employer coverage. This same
rule applies to an individual who may enroll in the coverage by reason of a relationship to a former employee.
Individual not in your tax family. An individual who
can enroll in your employer coverage who is not a member
of your tax family (for example, an adult non-dependent
child under age 26) is considered eligible for the employer
coverage for PTC purposes only for the months the individual is enrolled in the employer coverage.
How to determine if the plan is affordable. Your employer coverage is generally considered affordable for you
if your share of the annual cost for self-only coverage,
which is sometimes referred to as the “employee required
contribution,” is not more than 9.02% of your tax family’s
household income for 2025. Your employer coverage is
generally considered affordable for the other members of
your tax family eligible to enroll in the coverage if your
share of the annual cost for coverage for you and your
other tax family members is not more than 9.02% of your
family’s household income for 2025. If your employer coverage is affordable for you but not affordable for your other
Publication 974 (2025)

family members, you may be able to take the PTC for your
other family members if they enroll in a Marketplace qualified health plan. For 2026, this annual cost threshold will
increase to 9.96%. However, employer-sponsored coverage is not considered affordable if, when you or a family
member enrolled in a qualified health plan, you gave accurate information about the availability of employer coverage to the Marketplace, and the Marketplace determined
that you were eligible for APTC for the individual’s coverage in the qualified health plan. See Determining affordability at the time of enrollment, later, for more information
on this rule.
Certain employer arrangements. An employee’s required contribution for employer-sponsored coverage may
be affected by various arrangements offered by the employer.
Wellness program incentives. If the employer that
offered you (or your spouse) employer-sponsored coverage for 2025 also offered a wellness incentive that potentially affected the amount that you had to pay toward coverage, the following rules apply: If the condition for
satisfying the wellness incentive (in other words, the condition the employee must meet to pay the smaller amount
for coverage) relates exclusively to tobacco use, your required contribution is based on the amount you would
have paid for coverage if you had satisfied the condition
for the wellness incentive. Wellness incentives relating exclusively to tobacco use are treated as satisfied in determining your required contribution regardless of whether
you would have actually earned the incentive had you enrolled in the coverage. If factors other than tobacco use
are part of the condition for satisfying the wellness incentive, your required contribution is based on the amount
you would have paid for coverage had you not satisfied
the wellness incentive.
Example. George can enroll in employer coverage.
George’s monthly premiums for self-only coverage are
$450. If George, who is a smoker, attends a smoking cessation class, his monthly premiums will be reduced by
$100. If George completes a cholesterol screening, his
monthly premiums will be reduced by $50. Whether or not
George actually completes either of these wellness program incentives, for purposes of determining whether the
coverage is affordable for George, his required contribution will be considered to be the amount reduced by the
$100 incentive for attending a smoking cessation class
but not reduced by the $50 incentive for completing a cholesterol screening. Therefore, for purposes of determining
whether his coverage is considered affordable, George’s
required contribution is $350.
Health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs). If the
employer that offered you employer-sponsored coverage
for 2025 also contributed (or offered to contribute) to an
HRA that may be used to pay premiums for the employer-sponsored coverage, your required contribution for
the employer-sponsored coverage is reduced by the
amount the employer contributed (or offered to contribute)
to the HRA for 2025, as long as you were informed of the
HRA contribution offer by a reasonable time before you
11

had to decide whether to enroll in the coverage. Employers may offer you alternative or additional HRA coverage.
See Individual coverage HRAs next.
Individual coverage HRAs. Starting in 2020, employers can offer individual coverage HRAs to help employees
and their families with their medical expenses. Under an
individual coverage HRA, employers can reimburse eligible employees for medical expenses, including premiums
for Marketplace health insurance.
If you were covered under an individual coverage HRA
for 2025, you are not allowed a PTC for your 2025 Marketplace health insurance. Also, if another member of your
tax family was covered under an individual coverage HRA
for 2025, you are not allowed a PTC for the family member’s 2025 Marketplace health insurance. If you or a family
member could have been covered by an individual coverage HRA for 2025, but you opted out of receiving reimbursements under the individual coverage HRA, you may
be allowed a PTC for your, and your family member’s, Marketplace health insurance if the individual coverage HRA
is considered unaffordable.
Qualified small employer health reimbursement arrangements (QSEHRAs). If your employer provided you
with a QSEHRA, special rules apply. See Qualified Small
Employer Health Reimbursement Arrangement, later, for
more details.
Health flex contributions. If the employer that offered
you (or your spouse) employer-sponsored coverage for
2025 also made (or offered to make) a health flex contribution for 2025, your required contribution for the employer-sponsored coverage is reduced by the amount of
the health flex contribution (or offer). A health flex contribution is an employer contribution to a cafeteria plan that
may be used only to pay for medical care (and not taken
as cash or other taxable benefits) and is available for use
toward the purchase of MEC. Cafeteria plan contributions
that may be used for expenses other than medical care
are not health flex contributions and so do not reduce your
required contribution.
Opt-out payments. If the employer that offered you
(or your spouse) employer-sponsored coverage for 2025
offered you an additional payment if you declined to enroll
in the coverage (an “opt-out payment”), your required contribution for employer-sponsored coverage is increased by
amounts that the employer offered to pay you for declining
the coverage. In some cases, an employer may make this
opt-out payment only if the employee both declines the
coverage and also satisfies another condition (such as enrolling in coverage offered by the employee’s spouse). If
your employer imposed other conditions on receiving the
opt-out payment (in addition to declining the employer’s
health coverage), you may treat the opt-out payment as increasing the employee’s required contribution only if you
can demonstrate that you met the conditions (such as enrolling in coverage offered by your spouse’s employer).
More information about employer arrangements.
You should contact your employer if you have questions

12

about the effect of the employer arrangements described
above on your required contribution.
Caution: If your employer or the employer of a family
member offered MEC providing minimum value and, upon
your request, provided you with Form 1095-C, and if the
employer also offered a non-health flex contribution or an
opt-out payment, the amount reported on line 15 of Form
1095-C may not accurately reflect the amount of your required contribution for purposes of the PTC. If you have
questions about the amount reported on line 15, contact
your employer using the contact number provided on the
Form 1095-C.
Determining affordability at the time of enrollment.
Your employer coverage is not considered affordable if,
when you enroll in a qualified health plan, the Marketplace
determines that your required contribution for employer
coverage will be more than 9.02% of what the Marketplace estimates will be your household income and therefore that you are eligible for APTC for coverage in the
qualified health plan. Eligibility for employer coverage in
this situation does not disqualify you from taking the PTC
when you file your tax return, even if your required contribution for coverage was not more than 9.02% of the
household income on your return. However, you will be
treated as eligible for affordable employer coverage based
on the household income on your tax return if:

• You did not provide current information to the Market-

place relating to your household income and the required contribution for your employer coverage during
each annual re-enrollment period, or

• You provided incorrect information to the Marketplace
about your required contribution with intentional or
reckless disregard for the facts.

You provide information with intentional disregard for
the facts if you know that the information provided is inaccurate. You provide information with a reckless disregard
for the facts if you make little or no effort to determine
whether the information provided is accurate and your
lack of effort to provide accurate information is substantially different from what a reasonable person would do
under the circumstances.
The employer coverage offered by the various employers in the following examples qualifies as MEC.
Example 1. Celia is single and has no dependents.
Her household income for 2025 was $47,000. Celia’s employer offered its employees a health insurance plan that
provided minimum value and for which the required contribution was $3,450 for self-only coverage for 2025 (7.34%
of Celia’s household income). Because Celia’s required
contribution for self-only coverage did not exceed 8.39%
of household income, her employer’s plan is considered
affordable for Celia, and Celia is considered eligible for
the employer coverage for all months in 2025. Celia cannot get the PTC for coverage in a qualified health plan.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that Celia is married to Jon, they file a joint return
for 2025, and the employer’s plan required Celia to
Publication 974 (2025)

contribute $5,300 for coverage for Celia and Jon for 2025
(11.28% of Celia’s household income). Because Celia’s
required contribution for coverage for herself and Jon exceeds 9.02% of household income, her employer’s plan is
considered not affordable for Jon and Jon is considered
not eligible for the employer coverage. Celia is, however,
considered eligible for the employer coverage for all
months in 2025 and cannot get the PTC for coverage in a
qualified health plan because her cost to enroll in the coverage does not exceed 9.02% of their household income.
Jon is allowed a PTC if he does not enroll in the employer
coverage, enrolls in a qualified health plan through the
Marketplace for 1 or more months in 2025, and is otherwise allowed a PTC.
Example 3. Don was eligible to enroll in employer coverage in 2025. Don’s required contribution for self-only
coverage that provided minimum value was $3,550. Don
applied for coverage in a qualified health plan through the
Marketplace. The Marketplace projected that Don’s 2025
household income would be $37,000 and determined that
Don’s employer coverage was unaffordable because
Don’s required contribution was more than 9.02% of Don’s
household income. Don enrolled in a qualified health plan
through the Marketplace with APTC and not in the employer coverage. In December, Don received an unexpected $6,500 bonus, which increased his 2025 household
income to $43,500. Although Don’s required contribution
for the employer coverage was not more than 8.39% of the
household income on Don’s tax return, Don is considered
not eligible for the employer coverage for 2025 because
the Marketplace estimated that the employer coverage
would cost more than 9.02% of Don’s household income.
Don can get the PTC if he otherwise qualifies.
Example 4. Hal was eligible for employer coverage for
2025. His required contribution for self-only coverage was
$3,400, and Hal enrolled in the coverage. His household
income for 2025 was $33,000, which means that his required contribution was more than 9.02% of his household
income. Even though the employer coverage was not affordable, Hal cannot get the PTC for coverage in a qualified health plan because he enrolled in the employer coverage.
Example 5. Elsa is married and has two dependent
children. Her household income for 2025 was $39,000. Elsa’s employer offered only self-only coverage to employees. No family coverage was offered. The plan had a required contribution of $3,000 for self-only coverage for
2025 (7.69% of Elsa’s household income) and provided
minimum value. Because Elsa’s required contribution for
self-only coverage was not more than 9.02% of household
income, her employer’s plan is considered affordable for
Elsa. Thus, Elsa is considered eligible for the employer
coverage for 2025 and cannot get the PTC for coverage in
a qualified health plan. However, because Elsa’s employer
did not offer coverage to Elsa’s spouse and children, Elsa
could take the PTC for her spouse and two children if they
enrolled in a qualified health plan and otherwise qualify.
Determining affordability for part-year period. If
you are employed for part of a year or employed by
Publication 974 (2025)

different employers during the year, you determine
whether your coverage is affordable by looking separately
at each coverage period that is less than a full calendar
year. For each period, the coverage is affordable if your required contribution for the entire year would not be more
than 9.02% of your household income for the year.
Example. Elvis was enrolled in a qualified health plan
without APTC beginning in January 2025. He began working for a new employer in May that offers health insurance
coverage with a calendar-year plan year. Elvis’ required
contribution for the employer coverage for the remainder
of the year was $200/month, which would be $2,400 for
the full plan year. Elvis does not enroll in the employer
coverage or inform the Marketplace of the offer of employer coverage. Elvis’ household income for the year is
$20,000. Elvis’ employer coverage is considered unaffordable for the period May through December because his
required contribution for the full plan year, $2,400, is more
than 9.02% of his household income. As a result, Elvis
could take the PTC for January through December if he
otherwise qualifies.
Coverage year not a calendar year. If your employer’s plan year is not the calendar year and you are a calendar-year taxpayer, you determine whether your coverage
is affordable by looking separately at the portion of the calendar year in each plan year. A coverage period in 2025
that falls in a plan year beginning in 2024 is considered affordable if your required contribution for the entire plan
year is not more than 8.39% of your household income for
2025. A coverage period in 2025 that falls in a plan year
beginning in 2025 is considered affordable if your required
contribution for the entire plan year is not more than
9.02% of your household income for 2025.
The employer coverage offered by the various employers in the following examples qualifies as MEC.
Example 1. Tim’s employer offers health insurance
coverage with a plan year of July 1 through June 30. His
required contribution for the plan year that began on July
1, 2024, was $250 per month ($3,000 for the entire plan
year). Tim enrolled in a qualified health plan on January 1,
2025, and did not apply for APTC. Tim’s household income for 2025 is $30,000. Tim’s required contribution for
the plan year, $3,000, is 10% of his household income for
2025. Because 10% is more than 8.39% (the required
contribution percentage for the plan year beginning in
2024), Tim’s employer coverage for January 1, 2025,
through June 30, 2025, is not considered affordable, and
Tim can take the PTC for those months if he is otherwise
eligible.
For the plan year that began on July 1, 2025, Tim’s required contribution was reduced to $200 per month (or
$2,400 for the entire plan year). Tim’s required contribution of $2,400 is 8% of his 2025 household income. Because 8% is not more than 9.02% (the required contribution percentage for the plan year beginning in 2025), Tim’s
employer coverage for July 1, 2025, through December
31, 2025, is considered affordable and he is not eligible
for the PTC for those months.

13

Example 2. Maria’s employer offers health insurance
coverage with a plan year of September 1 through August
31. Maria’s required contribution for the employer coverage for the plan year September 1, 2025, through August
31, 2026, is $3,700. Maria’s household income for 2025 is
$37,000. Maria’s employer coverage is considered unaffordable for the period September 1 through December
31, 2025, because her required contribution for the plan
year, $3,700, is more than 9.02% of her 2025 household
income. If Maria enrolls in a qualified health plan for 2026
and requests APTC, the Marketplace will determine
whether the employer coverage is considered affordable
for the period January 1, 2026, through August 31, 2026,
by comparing Maria’s required contribution for the plan
year beginning in 2025, $3,700, to her estimated 2026
household income.
How to determine if a plan provides minimum value.
An employer-sponsored plan provides minimum value
only if the plan pays at least 60% of the total allowed costs
of benefits for a standard population and provides substantial coverage of inpatient hospitalization services and
physician services. A plan meets the 60% rule only if an
employee’s expected cost-sharing (deductibles, co-pays,
co-insurance, and out-of-pocket maximums) under the
plan is no more than 40% of the cost of the benefits. This
percentage is based on actuarial principles using benefits
provided to a standard population and is not based on
what you actually pay for cost sharing.
Your employer must provide you with a summary of
benefits and coverage (SBC) on or before the first day of
the open enrollment period for the plan you are enrolled in
for the current coverage period. The employer must also
provide you with SBCs you request for other plans in
which you can enroll. If you are not enrolled in a plan, the
employer must provide you with the SBCs for all plans in
which you can enroll. The SBC will tell you whether an
employer-sponsored plan provides minimum value. If you
requested Form 1095-C from your employer and they provided it, line 14 of that form will include an indicator code
telling you if your employer offered you a health plan in the
previous year that provided minimum value.

Qualified Small Employer Health
Reimbursement Arrangement
(QSEHRA)
Under a QSEHRA, an eligible employer can reimburse eligible employees for medical expenses, including premiums for a qualified health plan purchased through the
Marketplace. An eligible employer is one that, in general,
employs fewer than 50 full-time employees and does not
offer a group health plan.
A QSEHRA is an arrangement that meets all the following requirements.
1. The arrangement is funded solely by the employer,
and no salary reduction contributions may be made
under the arrangement.

14

2. The arrangement provides, after the eligible employee
provides proof of coverage, for the payment or reimbursement of the medical expenses incurred by the
employee or the employee’s family members.
3. The amount of payments and reimbursements
doesn’t exceed $6,350 ($12,800 for family coverage)
for 2025.
4. The arrangement is generally provided on the same
terms to all eligible employees. However, the employer’s QSEHRA may exclude employees who haven’t
completed 90 days of service, employees who haven’t
reached age 25 before the beginning of the plan year,
part-time or seasonal employees, employees covered
by a collective bargaining agreement if health benefits
were the subject of good-faith bargaining, and employees who are nonresident aliens with no earned income from sources within the United States.
If you are provided a QSEHRA, and it is considered affordable coverage for a month, no PTC is allowed for that
month. If the QSEHRA is not considered affordable coverage for 1 or more months, you may still be eligible for the
PTC. If you are eligible for the PTC for any month for which
you are provided a QSEHRA, you must reduce your PTC
(but not below -0-) for that month by the monthly QSEHRA
permitted benefit amount. The monthly permitted benefit
amount is the maximum QSEHRA benefit amount an eligible employee is allowed per month. See Permitted benefit
reported on Form W-2, later, and Worksheet Q for more
information.
Written notice of QSEHRA. If you were provided a
QSEHRA during 2025, your employer should have provided written notice to you by the later of October 3, 2024,
or 90 days before the first day of the plan year of the
QSEHRA, or if you’re an employee who is not eligible to
participate at the beginning of the year, the date on which
you’re first eligible to participate in the QSEHRA. The information in this notice is necessary to determine how the
QSEHRA affects your PTC. The permitted benefit for
self-only coverage as reported by the employer in the
written notice is used to determine whether the QSEHRA
is considered affordable coverage, regardless of whether
the permitted benefit provided to you is for self-only or
family coverage. If the notice provided to you does not include a permitted benefit amount for self-only coverage,
you must contact your employer to get that information.
Use Worksheet N to determine whether your QSEHRA is
considered affordable coverage for the months of the year
that you were provided the QSEHRA. You will need the
notice provided by your employer and the permitted benefit for self-only coverage to complete Worksheet N.
Permitted benefit reported on Form W-2. Your employer should have reported your annual permitted benefit
(self-only or family amount, as applicable) in box 12 of
your Form W-2 with code FF. Your permitted benefit
amount, as reported to you by your employer on Form
W-2, is used to calculate the amount by which you must
reduce your PTC, if you are otherwise eligible for the PTC.

Publication 974 (2025)

Use Worksheet Q to figure your monthly PTC for months
in which you were provided a QSEHRA.
APTC for 2025 and 2026. If APTC was paid for your
2025 Marketplace coverage, your QSEHRA permitted
benefit for 2025 was not considered by the Marketplace in
calculating the amount of your 2025 APTC. Furthermore, if
you requested APTC for your 2026 Marketplace coverage,
the Marketplace did not consider your 2026 permitted
benefit in calculating the amount of your 2026 APTC. If
you are provided a QSEHRA for 2026, you should contact
the Marketplace and ask the Marketplace to reduce the
amount of APTC to be paid on your behalf for 2026 to limit
the risk of having excess APTC for 2026.

Publication 974 (2025)

15

Worksheet N. Worksheet To Determine if the QSEHRA Is
Considered Affordable

Keep for Your Records

Note: See Special instructions for Worksheet N if your SLCSP premium was not the same for all months of 2025 or you
changed employers during 2025.
1. Enter the amount from Form 8962, line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. Multiply line 1 by 0.0902 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Enter the number of months you were provided the QSEHRA in 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4. Divide line 2 by 12.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. If you enrolled in a qualified health plan, enter the monthly premium you would pay for self-only coverage under
the SLCSP offered by the Marketplace where you enrolled in coverage. If you did not enroll in a qualified health
plan, enter the monthly premium that the oldest member of your coverage family who is enrolled in a qualified
health plan would pay for self-only coverage under the SLCSP offered by the Marketplace where that family
member enrolled. See Applicable SLCSP premium tools, later, to learn how to retrieve the applicable
SLCSP premium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Enter the self-only coverage permitted benefit from the written notice provided by your employer. If you were
provided the QSEHRA for less than 12 months in 2025, see Part-year coverage, later, for what amount to enter
on line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

7. Divide line 6 by line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8. Subtract line 7 from line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9. Compare lines 4 and 8.

• If line 4 is less than line 8, the QSEHRA is not considered affordable. Stop here. Complete Worksheet Q.
• If line 4 is greater than or equal to line 8, the QSEHRA is considered affordable. Skip Worksheet Q. Stop here
and do not file Form 8962 if you were provided a QSEHRA for every month you were covered by a qualified
health plan and no APTC was paid for you or another individual in your tax family. Otherwise, enter
“QSEHRA” in the top margin of Form 8962. If you are completing Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, stop here
and enter -0- on lines 12 through 23, column (e), for each month you were provided the QSEHRA. If you are
completing Form 8962, line 11, and you were provided the QSEHRA for all of 2025, stop here and enter -0on line 11, column (e). If you were not provided the QSEHRA for all of 2025, complete lines 10 through 13
below.

10. Enter the smaller of Form 8962, line 11, column (a) or (d) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. Divide line 10 by 12.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
12. Multiply line 11 by line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.
13. Subtract line 12 from line 10. Enter the result here and on Form 8962, line 11, column (e) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.

16

Publication 974 (2025)

Special instructions for Worksheet N if you did not
have the same SLCSP for all months of 2025 or
changed employers during 2025. You must complete a
separate worksheet through line 8 for each part of the year
in which you had a different SLCSP premium for self-only
coverage while provided a QSEHRA, or you were provided a QSEHRA from different employers with different
self-only permitted benefits. For example, Bob was employed for all of 2025 by an employer that provides a
QSEHRA to its employees. Bob changed Marketplace
policies in May of 2025 because of a change in residence.
As a result, Bob’s SLCSP premium for self-only coverage
was different for the period January through May than for
the period June through December. To determine the affordability of the QSEHRA provided to Bob, Bob must
complete a separate Worksheet N for the period January
through May and the period June through December.
Once you have completed the separate worksheets
through line 8, read the following.

• If the Worksheets N show that the QSEHRA is unaf-

fordable for at least 1 month (line 4 is less than line 8
on at least one of the worksheets), skip lines 9 through
13 and complete Worksheet Q.

• If the Worksheets N show that the QSEHRA is affordable for all months of 2025 (line 4 is greater than or
equal to line 8 on all the worksheets), follow the instructions on line 9 of the worksheet relating to “If
line 4 is greater than or equal to line 8.” Complete lines
10 through 13 if you are instructed to do so.

Part-year coverage—instruction for line 6. If you were
provided a QSEHRA for less than 12 months in 2025, the
written notice your employer sent to you may have provided the self-only coverage permitted benefit for only the
months you were provided the QSEHRA or the self-only
coverage permitted benefit for the entire year (if the notice
provided to you does not include a permitted benefit
amount for self-only coverage, you must contact your employer to get that information). If the notice provided the
permitted benefit amount just for the months you were
provided the QSEHRA, then enter that amount on line 6. If
the notice provided the self-only coverage permitted benefit for the entire year, figure the amount to enter on line 6
as follows.
1. Divide the self-only coverage permitted benefit for the
entire year by 12.0.
2. Multiply the result by the number of months you were
provided the QSEHRA.

Instructions for Worksheet Q, Part III
Column A. If you completed Form 8962, lines 12 through
23, enter the smaller of column (a) or (d) on the lines in
Part III for the months you were provided a QSEHRA. If
you completed Form 8962, line 11, and were instructed to
complete Part III in the second bullet under Before you begin, divide the amount on line 11, column (a), by 12.0.
Then, divide the amount on line 11, column (d), by 12.0.

Publication 974 (2025)

Enter the smaller of the 2 amounts on each line in column
A for the months you were provided a QSEHRA.
Column B. The amount you enter in column B depends
on whether the QSEHRA is considered affordable coverage for the month. For the months the QSEHRA is considered affordable coverage, enter in column B the amount
you entered in column A. For the months the QSEHRA is
not considered affordable coverage, complete column B
as follows.

• If you completed Part I, enter the amount from line 3

on the lines for the months you completed column A.

• If you skipped Part I, enter the monthly permitted ben-

efit amount (the amount from box 12, code FF, of Form
W-2, divided by the number of months you were provided the QSEHRA) on the lines for the months you
completed column A.

To determine whether the QSEHRA is considered affordable coverage for any month, see Worksheet N.
Self-only permitted benefit for some months and
family permitted benefit for others. Your permitted
benefit is reported in box 12 of Form W-2 using code FF.
However, if you received a self-only permitted benefit for
part of the year and a family permitted benefit for another
part of the year, the amount reported on your Form W-2
reflects that change. For purposes of this worksheet, divide the self-only permitted benefit as described in the
written notice from your employer by 12.0 to determine
your column B monthly permitted benefit for the months in
which you were provided a permitted benefit for self-only
coverage. Divide the family permitted benefit as described
in the written notice from your employer by 12.0 to determine your column B monthly permitted benefit for the
months in which you were provided a permitted benefit for
family coverage. If you were provided the QSEHRA for
less than 12 months in 2025, see Part-year coverage for
taxpayers with changes in permitted benefits next for what
amount to enter on line 6 of Worksheet N.
Part-year coverage for taxpayers with changes in
permitted benefits. If you received a self-only permitted
benefit for part of the year and a family permitted benefit
for another part of the year and you were provided a
QSEHRA for less than 12 months in 2025, you should
consult the written notice your employer sent to you to determine the amount to enter in column B. The notice your
employer sent to you may have included the permitted
benefit for only the months you were provided the
QSEHRA or the permitted benefit for the entire year. If the
notice provided the permitted benefit for the entire year,
divide the self-only coverage permitted benefit for the entire year by 12.0 and enter that amount in column B for the
months you received a self-only permitted benefit. Then,
divide the family coverage permitted benefit for the entire
year by 12.0 and enter that amount in column B for the
months you received a family permitted benefit. If the notice provided the permitted benefit for only the months you
were provided the QSEHRA, divide that amount by the

17

Worksheet Q. Worksheet To Figure Monthly Credit Amount if
You Have a QSEHRA

Keep for Your Records

Before you begin:

• See Worksheet N to determine whether the QSEHRA is considered affordable coverage for any month. If the QSEHRA is considered affordable

coverage for some months but not others, see the instructions for column B below for the amount you enter in column B for the affordable
months.
• If the monthly permitted benefit was the same for each month you were provided the QSEHRA and the QSEHRA was not considered affordable
for all of those months, go to Part I. If the monthly permitted benefit was not the same for each month you were provided the QSEHRA or the
QSEHRA was considered affordable for some but not all the months it was provided, go to Part III. Skip Parts I and II.
Caution: If you received a self-only permitted benefit for part of the year and a family permitted benefit for another part of the year, you must
complete Part III even though the amount reported on your Form W-2 reflects this change.
Part I: Monthly Permitted Benefit
1. Enter the amount from box 12, code FF, of Form W-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2. Enter the number of months you were provided the QSEHRA in 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3. Divide line 1 by line 2. Then, do one of the following . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

• If you are completing Form 8962, line 11, go to Part II below.
• If you are completing Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, go to Part III below. Skip Part II.
Part II: Annual Calculation
4. Enter the smaller of Form 8962, line 11, column (a) or (d) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5. Divide line 4 by 12.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 5

...................................................

6.

7. Multiply line 6 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8. Subtract line 7 from line 4. Enter the result here and on Form 8962, line 11, column (e). Enter “QSEHRA”
in the top margin of Form 8962. Skip Part III below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

Note: If the result is -0- and the amount you will enter on line 11, column (f), is also -0-, stop here. Do not
file Form 8962.
Part III: Monthly Calculation
Month

A. Tentative monthly premium tax credit
(see instructions)

B. Monthly permitted benefit (see
instructions)

C. Subtract col. B from col. A. If less
than zero, enter -0-.

9. January
10. February
11. March
12. April
13. May
14. June
15. July
16. August
17. September
18. October
19. November
20. December
21. If you are completing Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, stop here and enter the amounts from column C
above in column (e) for the months you completed column A. Enter “QSEHRA” in the top margin of Form
8962.
Note: If all entries in columns (e) and (f) are -0- or blank, do not file Form 8962.
22. If you are completing Form 8962, line 11, add the amounts in column C above and enter the result here. If
line 22 is -0- and no APTC was paid for you or another individual in your tax family, stop here and do not
file Form 8962. Otherwise, do one of the following . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

• If you were provided the QSEHRA for all of 2025, stop here and also enter the result on Form 8962,

22.

line 11, column (e). Enter “QSEHRA” in the top margin of Form 8962.

• If you were not provided the QSEHRA for all of 2025, complete lines 23 through 27 below to figure
the amount to enter on Form 8962, line 11, column (e).

23. Enter the smaller of Form 8962, line 11, column (a) or (d) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

23.

24. Divide line 23 by 12.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

24.

25. Multiply line 24 by the number of months you were provided the QSEHRA in 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

25.

26. Subtract line 25 from line 23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

26.

27. Add lines 22 and 26. Enter the result here and on Form 8962, line 11, column (e). Enter “QSEHRA” in the
top margin of Form 8962 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

27.

18

Publication 974 (2025)

number of months you were provided that permitted benefit under the QSEHRA and enter the amount in column B
for the appropriate months.

Grandfathered Health Plan
A “grandfathered health plan” means any group health
plan, group health insurance coverage, or individual
health insurance coverage to which section 1251 of the
ACA applies (in general, certain group health plans and
health insurance coverage existing as of March 23, 2010,
for as long as the coverage maintains that status under
the applicable rules). Health plans must disclose if they
are grandfathered. For more information about grandfathered health plans, go to HealthCare.gov/Health-Care-LawProtections/Grandfathered-Plans/.

Other Coverage Designated by the
Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS)
HHS has designated the following health benefit plans or
arrangements as MEC.
1. Employer coverage provided to business owners who
are not employees.
2. Coverage under a group health plan provided through
insurance regulated by a foreign government if:
a. A covered individual is physically absent from the
United States for at least 1 day during the month,
or
b. A covered individual is physically present in the
United States for a full month and the coverage
provides health benefits within the United States
while the individual is on expatriate status.
3. Coverage of pregnancy-related services that consists
of full Medicaid benefits.
4. Other specific programs listed at CMS.gov/CCIIO/
Programs-and-Initiatives/Health-Insurance-MarketReforms/Minimum-Essential-Coverage.html (click on
the link for “Approved Plans”). These programs include certain:
a. Self-insured university student health plans; and
b. Coverage resembling coverage under a state’s
CHIP program that generally requires the payment
of premiums with little or no government subsidy,
often called CHIP buy-in programs.
In general, if you were eligible for coverage that HHS has
designated as MEC, you are not eligible to claim the PTC
for coverage through the Marketplace. However, you are
considered as eligible for MEC under a self-insured university student health plan or a CHIP buy-in program that
has been designated as MEC only if you are enrolled in
the coverage.

Publication 974 (2025)

Individuals Not Lawfully
Present in the United States
Enrolled in a Qualified Health
Plan
The PTC is not allowed for the coverage of an individual
who is not lawfully present in the United States. All APTC
paid for an individual not lawfully present who enrolls in a
qualified health plan must be figured. If all family members
enrolled in a qualified health plan are not lawfully present,
see the discussion immediately below. If you or a member
of your family is not lawfully present and was enrolled in a
qualified health plan with family members who are lawfully
present for 1 or more months of the year, you must use the
instructions under Lawfully Present and Not Lawfully
Present Family Members Enrolled, later, to find out how
much APTC, if any, was allowable.
Tip: For more information about who is treated as lawfully
present for this purpose, go to HealthCare.gov/
Immigrants/Immigration-Status/.

All Enrolled Family Members Not
Lawfully Present
If all family members enrolled in a qualified health plan are
not lawfully present, no PTC is allowed. Complete lines on
Form 8962 as explained below. Leave all other lines
blank.
Lines 1, 2a, 3, 4, and 5. Enter -0-.
Line 9. Complete line 9 as provided in the Form 8962 instructions to determine whether you must complete Part
IV for an allocation of policy amounts. Complete Part IV if
instructed to do so by Table 3 in the Form 8962 instructions. Do not complete Part V.
Line 11, column (f) (or lines 12 through 23, column
(f), if you complete Part IV). If you checked “No” on
line 9, enter the total of your Form(s) 1095-A, Part III,
line 33C, on line 11, column (f). If you checked “Yes” on
line 9, complete lines 12 through 23, column (f), as provided in the Form 8962 instructions.
Line 24. Enter -0-.
Lines 25, 27, and 29. Enter the amount from line 11, column (f) (or the total of lines 12 through 23, column (f)), on
each line. Then, follow the instructions for line 29.

19

Lawfully Present and Not Lawfully
Present Family Members Enrolled
Tip: Before you read the following discussion, first familiarize yourself with the definitions of tax family and coverage family discussed under Terms You May Need To
Know, earlier.
If you or a member of your family is not lawfully present
and was enrolled in a qualified health plan with family
members who are lawfully present for 1 or more months of
the year, you may take the PTC only for the coverage of
the lawfully present family members. You must determine
how much APTC was paid for the coverage of a not lawfully present family member. Complete Form 8962 using
the following steps.
Step 1. Complete Part I according to the instructions. If
you are not eligible for the PTC, skip the rest of these
steps, complete Form 8962 through line 27, and then see
How To Determine the Excess APTC That Must Be Repaid, later.
Step 2. Determine your monthly enrollment premiums
and applicable SLCSP premium using the instructions under How To Determine Your Monthly Enrollment Premiums
and SLCSP Premium, later.
Step 3. Complete line 9, including Parts IV and V if instructed to do so.
Step 4. If Situation 1 (discussed later) applies to you, do
one of the following.

• If the enrolled lawfully present family members are en-

rolled for all 12 months of 2025, check “Yes” on line 10
and complete line 11, and lines 24 through 29, as appropriate.

• If the enrolled lawfully present family members are enrolled for less than 12 months, check “No” on line 10,
skip line 11, and complete lines 12 through 29, as appropriate.

If Situation 2 (discussed later) applies to you, check
“No” on line 10, skip line 11, and complete lines 12
through 25. Then, do one of the following.

• If line 24 is less than line 25, you have excess APTC.
See How To Determine the Excess APTC That Must
Be Repaid, later.

• If line 24 is equal to or greater than line 25, complete
line 26 as instructed. (Do not follow the instructions
under How To Determine the Excess APTC, later.)

How To Determine Your Monthly Enrollment
Premiums and Applicable SLCSP Premium
See Situation 1 or Situation 2 next for how to determine
your monthly enrollment premium and applicable SLCSP
premium.
Situation 1—not lawfully present family members enrolled and no other changes in enrollment or cover20

age family. Situation 1 applies if you have family members who are not lawfully present that are enrolled for all or
a part of the year, there are no changes in your coverage
family during the year (counting only lawfully present family members), and there are no enrollment changes involving your lawfully present family members enrolled in the
coverage during the year. If Situation 1 applies, you should
enter on Form 8962 for every month of the year the enrollment premiums and applicable SLCSP premium the Marketplace reports on Form 1095-A for the months when
only lawfully present individuals were enrolled in the coverage. If a not lawfully present family member was enrolled for the entire year, see No reference month, later.
Example 1. Andrew enrolls himself and his three dependents, Terri, Phil, and Anne, in a qualified health plan.
Anne is not lawfully present in the United States. The
monthly enrollment premiums for the plan are $1,000. No
one in Andrew’s family is eligible for MEC (other than Marketplace coverage) and the applicable SLCSP premium
that would apply to all four members of Andrew’s family is
$1,200. There are no changes involving the lawfully
present members of the coverage family during the year.
Anne is disenrolled from coverage as of April 1. The
monthly enrollment premiums for Andrew and his other
two dependents are $800 and the applicable SLCSP premium that applies to Andrew’s coverage family of three is
$900. The Marketplace reports the following amounts in
Form 1095-A, Part III.
Months

Column A Column B

January, February, March . . . . . . .
April through December . . . . . . . .

$1,000
$800

$1,200
$900

When completing Form 8962, Andrew enters $9,600
($800 x 12) as the enrollment premiums on line 11, column (a), and $10,800 ($900 x 12) as the premium for the
applicable SLCSP on line 11, column (b).
Situation 2—changes in enrollment or coverage family involving a lawfully present family member. Situation 2 applies if you have family members who are not lawfully present that are enrolled for all or a part of the year,
and there are either changes in your coverage family during the year (counting only lawfully present family members) or enrollment changes involving your lawfully
present family members enrolled in the coverage during
the year. If Situation 2 applies, use these rules to determine the enrollment premiums and the applicable SLCSP
premium for the months any not lawfully present family
members are enrolled. First, use Worksheet A to determine if you have a reference month for enrollment premiums or for the applicable SLCSP premium. You may have
a reference month for enrollment premiums (discussed
next) or a reference month for the applicable SLCSP premium (discussed later), or for both.
Reference month for enrollment premiums. A reference month for enrollment premiums is a month in which
the not lawfully present family member is not enrolled in
coverage and there are no other changes in the members
of your family who are enrolled in the coverage. In other
Publication 974 (2025)

words, your enrolled family members are the same during
the reference month as for a month the not lawfully
present family member was enrolled, except that the not
lawfully present family member is not enrolled. Enter in
Form 8962, Part II, column (a), the enrollment premiums
for the reference month as the enrollment premiums for
the months the not lawfully present family member was
enrolled.
Reference month for SLCSP premium. A reference
month for the applicable SLCSP premium is a month in
which the not lawfully present family member is not enrolled in coverage and there are no other changes in your
coverage family. In other words, your coverage family is
the same during the reference month as for a month the
not lawfully present family member was enrolled, except
the not lawfully present family member is not included in
your coverage family. Enter in Form 8962, Part II, column
(b), the applicable SLCSP premium for the reference
month as the applicable SLCSP premium for the months
the not lawfully present family member was enrolled.
No reference month. If you do not have a reference
month for enrollment premiums, you may have to contact
your insurance company to find out what the amount of
the enrollment premiums would have been if the policy
had covered only lawfully present family members. If you
do not have a reference month for the applicable SLCSP
premium, you must look up the SLCSP premium that applies to your coverage family (without any not lawfully
present family members). See Determining the Premium
for the Applicable Second Lowest Cost Silver Plan
(SLCSP), later.
Tip: You may use Worksheet A to determine whether you
have any reference months.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
earlier, except that Andrew becomes eligible for employer-sponsored coverage on September 1, notifies the
Marketplace, but remains enrolled in the qualified health
plan (although he cannot take the PTC for his coverage for
the months after August). The applicable SLCSP premium
that applies to Terri and Phil is only $400. The Marketplace reports the following amounts in Form 1095-A, Part
III.
Months
January, February, March . . . . . . .
April through August . . . . . . . . . .
September through December . . .

Column A Column B
$1,000
$800
$800

$1,200
$900
$400

Andrew must complete lines 12 through 23 of Form
8962. April through August are reference months for both

Publication 974 (2025)

enrollment premiums and the applicable SLCSP premium
for January through March (the months Anne was enrolled
in coverage) because Andrew’s coverage family and enrolled family members for April through August (Andrew,
Phil, and Terri) are the same as for January through March
except for Anne who is not lawfully present. (September
through December are also reference months for enrollment premiums.) The enrollment premiums and SLCSP
premium for April through August are the same amounts
they would have been for January through March without
Anne. Therefore, for the months January through March,
Andrew enters on Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, $800
(the enrollment premiums for April through August) in column (a) and $900 (the SLCSP premium that applies to the
coverage family for April through August) in column (b).
Example 3. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
earlier, except that Andrew becomes eligible for employer-sponsored coverage on April 1, notifies the Marketplace, but remains enrolled in the qualified health plan.
The Marketplace reports the following amounts in Form
1095-A, Part III.
Months
January, February, March . . . . . . .
April through December . . . . . . . .

Column A Column B
$1,000
$800

$1,200
$400

Andrew does not have a reference month for the applicable SLCSP premium for the months Anne was enrolled
in the qualified health plan because there is another
change in his coverage family for the months April through
December (Andrew is not in the coverage family because
he is eligible for employer-sponsored coverage). Thus,
there are no months when Andrew’s coverage family is the
same (except for Anne) before and after Anne is disenrolled from coverage. Andrew must look up the SLCSP premium that applies to his coverage family without Anne. Andrew determines that the correct applicable SLCSP
premium to enter on Form 8962 for the months January
through March for a coverage family consisting of Andrew,
Terri, and Phil is $900.
April through December are reference months for Andrew for enrollment premiums because the family members who are enrolled for those months are the same family members who were enrolled in January through March,
except for Anne.
Therefore, for the months January through March, Andrew enters on Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, $800 (the
enrollment premiums for April through December) in column (a) and $900 (the SLCSP premium that would apply
to the coverage family of Andrew, Terri, and Phil) in column (b).

21

Worksheet A. Do You Have Any Reference Months?

Keep for Your Records

Use this worksheet to determine whether you have any reference months.
Months in 2025 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun.

Jul.

Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec.

1. Check a box for each month in which any
family members not lawfully present were
enrolled in coverage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Check a box for each month in which:
• Only lawfully present family members
were enrolled in coverage; and
• There were no other changes in
members of your tax family* who are
enrolled in coverage, as compared to a
month for which you checked a box on
line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The months for which you checked boxes
on line 2 are your reference months for
enrollment premiums. Use the enrollment
premium reported in Form 1095-A, Part III,
column A, for the reference month as your
enrollment premium on Form 8962 for the
month(s) you checked on line 1.
Note: If you did not check any boxes on this
line, see No reference month, earlier.
3. Check a box for each month in which:
• Only lawfully present family members
were enrolled in coverage; and
• There were no other changes in your
coverage family,* as compared to a
month for which you checked a box on
line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The months for which you checked boxes
on line 3 are your reference months for the
applicable SLCSP premium. Use the
applicable SLCSP premium reported in
Form 1095-A, Part III, column B, for the
reference month as your applicable SLCSP
premium on Form 8962 for the month(s) you
checked on line 1.
Note: If you did not check any boxes on this
line, see No reference month, earlier.
* See Terms You May Need To Know, earlier, for the definitions of tax family and coverage family.

How To Determine the Excess APTC That
Must Be Repaid
The excess APTC (see the instructions for Form 8962,
line 28) applies only to excess APTC for coverage of lawfully present individuals. Excess APTC that relates to the
coverage of individuals who are not lawfully present must
be figured without limitation. Use Worksheet B to determine the amount of excess APTC if all of the following apply.

• You or a member of your family is not lawfully present
and is enrolled in a qualified health plan with family

22

members who are lawfully present for 1 or more
months of the year.

• You have excess APTC on line 27 of Form 8962.
• Your excess APTC on line 27 of Form 8962 is more

than your amount from Table 5 in the Form 8962 instructions.

If line 27 is not more than your amount from Table 5 in
the Form 8962 instructions, do not complete Worksheet B.
Leave line 28 of Form 8962 blank, enter the amount from
line 27 on line 29, and follow the instructions for line 29. If
you must complete Worksheet B, see the illustrated example.
Publication 974 (2025)

Worksheet B. Excess APTC That Must Be Repaid

Keep for Your Records

Complete columns only for the months a not lawfully present family member was enrolled in coverage. (If you completed Worksheet A, these are the months for which you checked a box on line 1 of the worksheet.)
Months in 2025 . . . . . .

Jan.

Feb.

Mar.

Apr.

May

Jun.

Jul.

Aug.

Sep.

Oct.

Nov.

1.

Enter APTC from
Form 1095-A, Part
III, column
C ...........

2.

Enter the monthly
credit amount from
Form 8962, Part II,
column (e) . . . . .

3.

Subtract line 2
from line 1. If zero
or less, leave this
line blank and skip
lines 4 through 10
for the
month . . . . . . . .

4.

Enter the monthly
premium amount
from Form 1095-A,
Part III, column A . .

5.

Enter the SLCSP
premium from
Form 1095-A, Part
III, column B . . . . . .

6.

Enter the monthly
contribution
amount from Form
8962, line 8b . . . . .

7.

Subtract line 6
from line 5 . . . . .

8.

Enter the smaller
of line 4 or
line 7 . . . . . . . . .

9.

Subtract line 8
from line 1. If zero
or less,
enter -0- . . . . . .

10.

Subtract line 9
from line 3 . . . . .

11.

Add the amounts on line 10. If all of your line 3 results were zero or less, stop here. None of your excess APTC was from
individuals who were not lawfully present. Enter the repayment limitation amount from Table 5 in the Form 8962 instructions on
Form 8962, line 28, and continue to line 29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.

12.

Enter the repayment limitation amount from Table 5 in the Form 8962 instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.

13.

Add lines 11 and 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.

14.

Enter the amount from Form 8962, line 27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.

15.

Compare lines 13 and 14.
• If line 14 is more than line 13, enter the amount from line 13 on Form 8962, lines 28 and 29, and follow the instructions for
line 29.
• If line 14 is less than or equal to line 13, leave Form 8962, line 28, blank and enter the amount from line 27 on line 29.

Publication 974 (2025)

Dec.

23

Illustrated Example of Determining the
Excess APTC That Must Be Repaid
Andrew enrolls himself and his three dependents, Terri,
Phil, and Anne, in a qualified health plan. Anne is not lawfully present in the United States and is disenrolled from
the coverage as of April 1. Andrew becomes eligible for
employer-sponsored coverage on September 1, notifies
the Marketplace, but remains enrolled in the qualified
health plan. The Marketplace reports the following
amounts in Form 1095-A, Part III.
Months
January, February,
March . . . . . . . . . . . .
April through
August . . . . . . . . . . . .
September through
December . . . . . . . . .

Column A Column B Column C
$1,000

$1,200

$953

$800

$900

$653

$800

$400

$153

Step 1. Andrew completes Part I of Form 8962 (not illustrated). His household income for the year on his Form
8962, line 3, is $85,800, which is 275% of the federal poverty line. The annual contribution amount Andrew enters
on line 8a is $4,290 and the monthly contribution amount
he enters on line 8b is $358.
Step 2. Andrew determines his monthly enrollment premiums and applicable SLCSP premium using the instructions under How To Determine Your Monthly Premium and
Applicable SLCSP Premium, earlier. Situation 2 in that discussion applies to Andrew because he has a lawfully
present family member enrolled in coverage and there are
changes in his coverage family in 2025, counting only lawfully present family members: beginning in September,
only Phil and Terri are in the coverage family. Andrew is no
longer in the coverage family because he becomes eligible for employer-sponsored coverage.
Andrew completes Worksheet A as explained below to
determine his reference months for the enrollment premiums and the applicable SLCSP premium for the months
Anne was enrolled. (Andrew’s Worksheet A is shown
later.)
Line 1. He checks the boxes for January, February,
and March because those are the months in which Anne
is enrolled in Marketplace coverage.
Line 2. He checks the boxes for April through December. Those months are reference months for enrollment
premiums ($800) for January through March because his
tax family for these months (Andrew, Phil, and Terri) is the
same as for January through March except for Anne.
Line 3. He checks the boxes for April through August.
These months are reference months for the applicable

24

SLCSP premium ($900) for January through March because Andrew’s coverage family for these months (Andrew, Phil, and Terri) is the same as for January through
March except for Anne. September through December are
not reference months for the applicable SLCSP premium
(and Andrew doesn’t check these boxes) because, as explained above, there was another change in his coverage
family beginning in September.
Step 3. Andrew checks “No” on line 9 because he is neither allocating policy amounts with another taxpayer nor
using the alternative calculation for year of marriage.
Step 4. Because situation 2 (discussed earlier) applies to
Andrew, he checks “No” on line 10, skips line 11, and
completes lines 12 through 25. In column (a) of lines 12
through 14, he enters $800 as determined on Worksheet
A, line 2. In column (b) of lines 12 through 14, he enters
$900 as determined on Worksheet A, line 3.
Andrew’s PTC on line 24 ($4,336) is less than his APTC
on line 25 ($6,736), and his excess APTC on line 27
($2,400) is greater than his Table 5 repayment limitation
amount ($1,950) in the Form 8962 instructions. According
to the instructions under How To Determine the Excess
APTC That Must Be Repaid, earlier, Andrew must complete Worksheet B to figure the amount of excess APTC.
Andrew completes Worksheet B as follows.
Line 1. Andrew enters $953. This is the monthly APTC
shown in column C of Form 1095-A, Part III, for January,
February, and March (the months that Anne was enrolled
in coverage).
Line 2. Andrew enters $542. This is the amount from
Form 8962, Part II, column (e), for January through March
and represents the applicable monthly SLCSP premium
for April through August (reference months for the applicable SLCSP premium) for Andrew, Terri, and Phil of $900
minus the monthly contribution amount of $358 from Form
8962, line 8b.
Line 4. Andrew enters $1,000. This is the monthly premium for January through March shown in column A of
Form 1095-A, Part III.
Line 5. Andrew enters $1,200. This is the applicable
SLCSP premium shown in column B of Form 1095-A, Part
III.
Line 6. Andrew enters $358. This is the monthly contribution amount from Form 8962, line 8b.
Lines 7 through 14. Andrew completes these lines as
instructed on Worksheet B.
Line 15. Line 14 is not more than line 13. Accordingly,
Andrew enters the amount from line 14 ($2,400) on Form
8962, lines 28 and 29.

Publication 974 (2025)

Andrew’s Worksheet A. Do You Have Any Reference Months?
Use this worksheet to determine whether you have any reference months.
Months in 2025

Check a box for each month in which any
family members not lawfully present were
enrolled in coverage
Check a box for each month in which:
• Only lawfully present family members
were enrolled in coverage; and
• There were no other changes in
members of your tax family* who are
enrolled in coverage, as compared to a
month for which you checked a box on
line 1

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

✓

The months for which you checked boxes
on line 2 are your reference months for
enrollment premiums. Use the enrollment
premium reported on Form 1095-A, Part III,
column A, for the reference month as your
enrollment premium on Form 8962 for the
month(s) you checked on line 1.
Note: If you did not check any boxes on this
line, see No reference month, earlier.
Check a box for each month in which:
• Only lawfully present family members
were enrolled in coverage; and
• There were no other changes in your
coverage family,* as compared to a
month for which you checked a box on
line 1
The months for which you checked boxes
on line 3 are your reference months for the
applicable SLCSP premium. Use the
applicable SLCSP premium reported on
Form 1095-A, Part III, column B, for the
reference month as your applicable SLCSP
premium on Form 8962 for the month(s) you
checked on line 1.
Note: If you did not check any boxes on this
line, see No reference month, earlier.
* See Terms You May Need To Know, earlier, for the definitions of tax famliy and coverage family.

Publication 974 (2025)

25

Andrew’s Worksheet B. Excess APTC That Must Be Repaid
Complete columns only for the months a not lawfully present family member was enrolled in coverage. (If you completed Worksheet A, these are the months for which you checked a box on line 1 of the worksheet.)
Months in 2025 . . . . . .

Jan.

Feb.

Enter APTC from
Form 1095-A, Part
III, column
C ...........

$953

$953

$953

Enter the monthly
credit amount from
Form 8962, Part II,
column (e) . . . . .

542

542

542

Subtract line 2
from line 1. If zero
or less, leave this
line blank and skip
lines 4 through 10
for the
month . . . . . . . .

411

411

411

Enter the monthly
premium amount
from Form 1095-A,
Part III, column
A ...........

1,000

1,000

1,000

Enter the SLCSP
premium from
Form 1095-A, Part
III, column B . . . . . .

1,200

1,200

1,200

Enter the monthly
contribution
amount from Form
8962, line 8b . . . . .

358

358

358

7.

Subtract line 6
from line 5 . . . . .

842

842

842

8.

Enter the smaller
of line 4 or
line 7 . . . . . . . .

842

842

842

Subtract line 8
from line 1. If zero
or less,
enter -0- . . . . . .

111

111

111

10.

Subtract line 9
from line 3 . . . . .

300

300

300

11.

Add the amounts on line 10. If all of your line 3 results were zero or less, stop here. None of your excess APTC was from
individuals who were not lawfully present. Enter the repayment limitation amount from Table 5 in the Form 8962 instructions on
Form 8962, line 28, and continue to line 29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.

900

12.

Enter the repayment limitation amount from Table 5 in the Form 8962 instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.

1,950

13.

Add lines 11 and 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.

2,850

14.

Enter the amount from Form 8962, line 27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.

2,400

15.

Compare lines 13 and 14.
• If line 14 is more than line 13, enter the amount from line 13 on Form 8962, lines 28 and 29, and follow the instructions for
line 29.
• If line 14 is less than or equal to line 13, leave Form 8962, line 28, blank and enter the amount from line 27 on line 29.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

9.

26

Mar.

Apr.

May

Jun.

Jul.

Aug.

Sep.

Oct.

Nov.

Dec.

Publication 974 (2025)

Determining the Premium for
the Applicable Second Lowest
Cost Silver Plan (SLCSP)

Allocating Policy Amounts for
Individuals With No One in
Their Tax Family

If you or a member of your family enrolls in a qualified
health plan and APTC is paid for the coverage, the Marketplace will generally identify the applicable SLCSP premium and report it on Form 1095-A. The Marketplace determines the applicable SLCSP premium based on your
address and the members of your coverage family. Providing correct information on your application for financial assistance and notifying the Marketplace if you move or the
members of your coverage family change are necessary
for the Marketplace to report a correct applicable SLCSP
premium. If the Marketplace does not have accurate and
updated information, the applicable SLCSP premium the
Marketplace reports on Form 1095-A may not be accurate
for all months and you will need to determine the correct
applicable SLCSP premium for those months. See Applicable SLCSP premium tools below.

If an individual you enrolled in coverage is not included in
any tax family, you must reconcile the APTC paid for the
individual’s coverage, even if you are claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer. If you are enrolled in the
same policy as the individual not included in any tax family, you have to allocate policy amounts even though the
conditions in the Form 8962 instructions for line 9 are not
met. Use the example below to complete Form 8962 if
your family size is zero but you have to allocate policy
amounts.

If you did not request financial assistance (APTC) and
the Marketplace has an applicable SLCSP premium tool
(discussed in the next paragraph), the Marketplace will not
report an applicable SLCSP premium (Part III, column B,
will report -0- or be blank). If you did not request financial
assistance (APTC) and the Marketplace does not have an
applicable SLCSP premium tool, it may report an SLCSP
premium that applies to everyone enrolled in your qualified
health plan because it may not be able to identify the
members of your coverage family from the information on
your application. If you take the PTC on your tax return,
you will need to determine the SLCSP premium that applies to your coverage family for each month of coverage.
Applicable SLCSP premium tools. Only the Marketplaces are able to provide applicable SLCSP premiums. The
federally facilitated Marketplace and most state Marketplaces have provided applicable SLCSP premium tools
that, as you prepare your tax return, you may use to look
up the SLCSP premium that applies to your coverage family for each month. If you enrolled through the federally facilitated Marketplace, you will find the tool at
HealthCare.gov/Tax-Tool/.
If you enrolled through a state-based Marketplace, you
may find information about whether your state has an applicable SLCSP premium tool on the state-based Marketplace’s website. If the website does not have an applicable SLCSP premium tool, you will need to contact the
state-based Marketplace directly for the correct SLCSP
premium.

Example. Mark enrolls himself and his child, Donna, in
a qualified health plan with coverage effective for all of
2025. The Form 1095-A he received from the Marketplace
shows that $6,000 of APTC was paid for their coverage
($500 is entered in Part III, column C, for each of lines 21
through 32). Mark files an income tax return for 2025 on
Form 1040 and does not include anyone in his tax family.
Mark’s parents, Steve and Sherry, include Mark in their tax
family. No one includes Donna in their tax family. Because
Mark enrolled Donna in coverage and no one includes
Donna in their tax family, Mark must reconcile the APTC
paid for Donna’s coverage. Steve and Sherry must reconcile the APTC paid for Mark’s coverage. Because Steve
and Sherry must reconcile the APTC paid for Mark’s coverage and Mark must reconcile the APTC paid for Donna’s
coverage, Mark must complete Part IV of Form 8962 to allocate policy amounts with Steve and Sherry. Mark,
Sherry, and Steve do not agree on an allocation percentage. Mark completes Form 8962 as follows.
Lines 1, 2a, 3, 4, and 5. Mark enters -0-.
Line 9. Mark reads Allocating policy amounts under
Line 9 in the Form 8962 instructions. Although the first
condition in that discussion is not met, the allocation rules
still apply because the APTC must be reported on two
separate returns (Mark’s for Donna; Steve and Sherry’s for
Mark). He checks “Yes” on line 9. Then, he reads Table 3
in the instructions. According to Step 3 in Table 3, he must
allocate in Part IV using the rules under Allocation Situation 4 in the Form 8962 instructions.
Line 30 (Part IV). Mark enters the Marketplace-assigned policy number in column (a), Steve’s SSN in column (b), “01” in column (c), and “12” in column (d). He
leaves columns (e) and (f) blank because he is not an applicable taxpayer. He enters “0.50” in column (g). This is
the allocation percentage based on the rules under Allocation Situation 4 in the Form 8962 instructions.
Lines 12 through 23, column (f). Mark enters $250
on each line (0.50 x the $500 APTC shown on his Form
1095-A).

Publication 974 (2025)

27

Lines 25, 27, and 29. Mark enters $3,000 APTC,
which is the total of lines 12 through 23, column (f), on
these lines and on his Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 1a.

Allocation of Policy Amounts
Among Three or More
Taxpayers
This section covers allocations of policy amounts (enrollment premiums, applicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC)
among three or more taxpayers.
Before you read this section, first read Part IV—Allocation of Policy Amounts in the Form 8962 instructions.
Then, use the following instructions to complete Part IV of
Form 8962 if one qualified health plan covers individuals
from three or more tax families in the same month. Specifically, these instructions apply to:

• Taxpayers who must allocate policy amounts because

of a divorce or legal separation in 2025 and must also
allocate policy amounts with another taxpayer (for example, a grandparent who includes in their tax family a
child enrolled with the former spouses);

• Taxpayers who must allocate policy amounts because

they are legally married but are not filing a joint return
(for example, filing their returns as married filing separately), and must also allocate policy amounts with another taxpayer (for example, a grandparent who includes in their tax family a child enrolled with the
spouses); and

• Other taxpayers who are including an individual in

their tax family who is enrolled in a qualified health
plan together with members of two or more other tax
families.

No APTC. If you or a member of your tax family is enrolled in a qualified health plan with members of two or
more other tax families and no APTC is paid for coverage
under the plan, use the instructions for Form 8962 under
Allocation Situation 3 to allocate the enrollment premiums
from the qualified health plan among the tax families. You
allocate the enrollment premiums in proportion to the
SLCSP premium that applies to each taxpayer who has a
coverage family member enrolled in the plan. For purposes of this enrollment premium allocation, only coverage
family members enrolled in the plan are considered in determining the SLCSP premium that applies to each taxpayer. You and the other taxpayers must complete column
(e) on the appropriate line in Part IV to allocate the enrollment premiums to each family. Leave columns (f) and (g)
blank. See Missing or incorrect SLCSP premium on Form
1095-A under Line 10 in the Form 8962 instructions to determine your applicable SLCSP premium to use for the allocation.

28

Allocation Among Two Taxpayers
Who Divorced or Legally Separated in
2025 and One or More Other
Taxpayers
Use this section to allocate policy amounts from a qualified health plan if you meet either of the following conditions and no other allocations for the policy are necessary.

• You are allocating enrollment premiums, applicable

SLCSP premiums, and APTC with a former spouse as
a result of your divorce or legal separation in 2025 and
are also allocating amounts with another taxpayer who
is including an individual in their tax family who, when
you were married to the former spouse, was enrolled
in a qualified health plan with members of your and
your former spouse’s tax families.

• You are the taxpayer who is including in your tax family
an individual enrolled in the plan with tax family members of taxpayers who must also allocate policy
amounts as a result of divorce or separation in 2025.

Example. Kara and David and their two children, Meredith and Sam, enroll in a qualified health plan for 2025.
Kara and David were married at the beginning of 2025
and divorce in 2025. Meredith and Sam move in with their
grandmother, Lydia, in May of 2025. Lydia claims Meredith
and Sam as dependents on her 2025 income tax return.
Kara, David, and Lydia use this section to allocate policy
amounts to compute their respective PTC and reconcile
the PTC with the APTC paid.
Kara and David use the allocation method under Rules
for the Taxpayers Who Divorced or Legally Separated in
2025 and Are Also Allocating With Another Taxpayer next.
Lydia uses the allocation method under Rules for the
Taxpayer(s) Allocating With Taxpayers Who Divorced or
Legally Separated in 2025, later.

Rules for the Taxpayers Who Divorced or
Legally Separated in 2025 and Are Also
Allocating With Another Taxpayer
Use this allocation method if you divorced or legally separated during the year and you must allocate policy
amounts (enrollment premiums, applicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC) with your former spouse as well as with
another taxpayer who is including in their tax family an individual enrolled in a qualified health plan with members
of your and your former spouse’s tax families.
Step 1. Determine an allocation percentage with your former spouse. You use this percentage to allocate the total
enrollment premiums, the applicable SLCSP premiums,
and APTC for coverage under the plan during the months
you were married. You will find these amounts on your
Form(s) 1095-A, Part III, columns A, B, and C, respectively. You and your former spouse can allocate these
amounts using any percentage you agree on from -0- to
100, but you must allocate all amounts using the same
percentage. If you do not agree on a percentage, you and
Publication 974 (2025)

your former spouse must allocate 50% of each of these
amounts to each of you.
Step 2. Separately from the first allocation, determine an
allocation percentage with the taxpayer(s) who included in
their tax family the individual(s) enrolled in the plan with a
member of your tax family or a member of your former
spouse’s tax family. You may agree on any allocation percentage from -0- to 100. You may use the percentage you
agreed on for every month that this allocation rule applies,
or you may agree on different percentages for different
months. However, you must use the same allocation percentage for all policy amounts (enrollment premiums, applicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC) in a month. If you
cannot agree on an allocation percentage, the allocation
percentage is equal to the number of individuals the other
taxpayer includes in their tax family for the tax year who
were enrolled in the plan for which you are allocating policy amounts, divided by the total number of individuals enrolled in the qualified health plan. The allocation percentage is the percentage that applies to the amounts the
other taxpayer must use to compute the PTC and reconcile it with APTC. You and your former spouse must compute the PTC and reconcile APTC using the remaining
amounts.
Step 3. Complete Worksheet C below.

Worksheet C. Allocations for the Divorced or
Legally Separated Taxpayers
1. Enter as a decimal your percentage from
Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter 1.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Enter as a decimal the total of the
percentage(s) from Step 2 above allocated
to the other taxpayer(s).
Note: See Example 2, later, for details on
adding the percentages for multiple
taxpayers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

1.0

5. Multiply line 1 by line 4. Enter the result as
a decimal. This is your allocation
percentage. Go to Step 4 below . . . . . . . . 5.

Step 4. If you use the same percentage in Step 2 above
for every month to which this allocation method applies,
use only one of lines 30 through 33 in Part IV to report the
allocation. If you use different percentages for different
months under Step 2, use a separate line in Part IV for
each allocation percentage. Complete the line as explained below.

Column (c). Enter the first month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a percentage from January through June, enter “01” in column
(c).
Column (d). Enter the last month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a percentage from January through June, enter “06” in column
(d).
Columns (e), (f), and (g). Enter the decimal from
Worksheet C, line 5.

Rules for the Taxpayer(s) Allocating With
Taxpayers Who Divorced or Legally
Separated in 2025
Use this allocation method if you are including in your tax
family one or more individuals who were enrolled in a
qualified health plan with members of the tax families of
other taxpayers who must also allocate policy amounts as
a result of divorce or legal separation in 2025.
Step 1. Determine an allocation percentage with one of
the former spouses. You may agree on any allocation percentage from -0- to 100. You may use the percentage you
agreed on for every month during which this allocation rule
applies, or you may agree on different percentages for different months. However, you must use the same allocation
percentage for all policy amounts (enrollment premiums,
applicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC) in a month. If
you cannot agree on an allocation percentage, the allocation percentage is equal to the number of individuals you
include in your tax family for the tax year who were enrolled in the qualified health plan for which you are allocating
policy amounts, divided by the total number of individuals
enrolled in the plan. The allocation percentage is the percentage that applies to the amounts you must use to compute the PTC and reconcile it with APTC. The former
spouse must compute the PTC and reconcile APTC using
the remaining amounts.
Step 2. Allocate the policy amounts with the second former spouse using the same rules as Step 1 above. Enter
the percentage on line 4 of Worksheet D.
Step 3. Complete Worksheet D below.

Column (a). Enter the Marketplace-assigned policy
number from Form 1095-A, line 2. If the policy number on
the Form 1095-A is more than 15 characters, enter only
the last 15 characters.
Column (b). Enter the SSN of your former spouse.

Publication 974 (2025)

29

Worksheet D. Taxpayer Allocating With
Divorced or Separated Taxpayers
1. Enter the decimal from line 1 of the
Worksheet C completed by one of the
former spouses from Step 1 above . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter as a decimal the percentage from
Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Multiply line 1 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Enter the decimal from line 1 of the
Worksheet C completed by the other former
spouse from Step 2 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Enter as a decimal the percentage from
Step 2 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Multiply line 4 by line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Add line 3 and line 6. This is the allocation
percentage. Go to Step 4 below . . . . . . . . . 7.

Step 4. If you use the same percentages in Steps 1 and 2
above for every month to which this allocation method applies, use only one of lines 30 through 33 in Part IV to report the allocation. If you use different percentages for different months in Step 1 or Step 2, use a separate line in
Part IV for each allocation percentage. Complete the line
as explained below.
Column (a). Enter the Marketplace-assigned policy
number from Form 1095-A, line 2. If the policy number on
the Form 1095-A is more than 15 characters, enter only
the last 15 characters.

On their respective tax returns, Kara files as single and
includes only herself in her tax family; David files as single
and includes only himself in his tax family; and Lydia files
as head of household and includes Meredith and Sam in
her tax family.
Under Step 1 of Rules for the Taxpayers Who Divorced
or Legally Separated in 2025 and Are Also Allocating With
Another Taxpayer, Kara and David agree to allocate the
policy amounts 30% to Kara and 70% to David. Under
Step 2 of that method (Kara, David) and under Rules for
the Taxpayer(s) Allocating With Taxpayers Who Divorced
or Legally Separated in 2025 (Lydia), Kara and Lydia
agree to allocate 80% of the policy amounts to Lydia, and
David and Lydia agree to allocate 50% of the policy
amounts to Lydia. Each of them completes a worksheet as
shown below and uses it to complete Part IV.
Kara completes Worksheet C as follows.

Kara’s Worksheet C. Allocations for Divorced
or Legally Separated Taxpayers
1. Enter as a decimal your percentage from
Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter 1.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Enter as a decimal the total of the
percentages from Step 2 above
allocated to the other taxpayer(s) . . . . . 3.
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Multiply line 1 by line 4. Enter the result
as a decimal. This is the allocation
percentage. Go to Step 4 below . . . . . .

5.

0.30
1.0
0.80
0.20
0.06

Column (b). Enter the SSN of the former spouse
whose percentage you entered on Worksheet D, line 1.

After completing Worksheet C, Kara completes Form
8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.

Column (c). Enter the first month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a percentage from January through June, enter “01” in column
(c).

Column (a). Kara enters the Marketplace-assigned
policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.

Column (d). Enter the last month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a percentage from January through June, enter “06” in column
(d).
Columns (e), (f), and (g). Enter the decimal from
Worksheet D, line 7.
Example 1. Kara and David were married at the beginning of 2025 and have two children, Meredith and Sam.
Kara enrolled herself, David, Meredith, and Sam in a
qualified health plan with coverage effective January 1.
For each month of coverage, the enrollment premiums
were $700, the applicable SLCSP premium for a coverage
family of four was $650, and the APTC was $425.
Meredith and Sam moved in with their grandmother, Lydia, in May. Kara and David divorced in September. Kara
enrolled in a new qualified health plan for self-only coverage. David became eligible for and enrolled in employer-sponsored self-only coverage. Meredith and Sam
became eligible for and enrolled in government-sponsored coverage. All of the new plans have coverage effective October 1. Lydia is enrolled in employer-sponsored
coverage.
30

Column (b). Kara enters David’s SSN.
Column (c). Kara enters “01.”
Column (d). Kara enters “09.”
Columns (e), (f), and (g). Kara enters “0.06.”
After completing Part IV, Kara multiplies the amounts
from Form 1095-A, Part III, by the corresponding percentages in Part IV, and enters these allocated amounts on
Form 8962, lines 12 through 20, columns (a), (b), and (f).
On each of those lines, she will enter $42 in column (a)
(enrollment premiums of $700 x 0.06), $39 in column (b)
(applicable SLCSP premium of $650 x 0.06), and $26 in
column (f) (APTC of $425 x 0.06). She completes her
Form 8962, lines 21 through 23, columns (a), (b), and (f),
by entering the monthly amounts from her separate Form
1095-A for her self-only coverage from October through
December. She does not allocate those amounts.
David completes Worksheet C as follows.

Publication 974 (2025)

Lydia’s Worksheet D. Taxpayer Allocating
With Divorced or Legally Separated
Taxpayers

David’s Worksheet C. Allocations for
Divorced or Legally Separated Taxpayers
1. Enter as a decimal your percentage
from Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter 1.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Enter as a decimal the total of the
percentages from Step 2 above
allocated to the other
taxpayer(s) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Multiply line 1 by line 4. Enter the result
as a decimal. This is the allocation
percentage. Go to Step 4 below . . . . . 5.

0.70
1.0

0.50
0.50

2.
3.
4.

0.35

After completing Worksheet C, David completes Form
8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). David enters the Marketplace-assigned
policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). David enters Kara’s SSN.
Column (c). David enters “01.”
Column (d). David enters “09.”
Columns (e), (f), and (g). David enters “0.35.”
After completing Part IV, David multiplies the amounts
from Form 1095-A, Part III, by the corresponding percentages in Part IV, and enters these allocated amounts on
Form 8962, lines 12 through 20, columns (a), (b), and (f).
On each of those lines, he will enter $245 in column (a)
(enrollment premiums of $700 x 0.35), $228 in column (b)
(applicable SLCSP premium of $650 x 0.35), and $149 in
column (f) (APTC of $425 x 0.35). David leaves Form
8962, lines 21 through 23, blank because he was not enrolled in a qualified health plan during October through
December.
Lydia completes Worksheet D as follows.

1.

5.
6.
7.

Enter the decimal from line 1 of the
Worksheet C completed by one of the
former spouses from Step 1
above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter as a decimal the percentage
from Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Multiply line 1 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Enter the decimal from line 1 of the
Worksheet C completed by the other
former spouse from Step 2
above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Enter as a decimal the percentage
from Step 2 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
Multiply line 4 by line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add line 3 and line 6. This is the
allocation percentage. Go to Step 4
below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

0.30
0.80
0.24

0.70
0.50
0.35
0.59

After completing Worksheet D, Lydia completes Form
8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). Lydia enters the Marketplace-assigned
policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). Lydia enters Kara’s SSN.
Column (c). Lydia enters “01.”
Column (d). Lydia enters “09.”
Columns (e), (f), and (g). Lydia enters “0.59.”
After completing Part IV, Lydia multiplies the amounts
from Form 1095-A, Part III, by the corresponding percentages in Part IV, and enters these allocated amounts on
Form 8962, lines 12 through 20, columns (a), (b), and (f).
On each of those lines, she will enter $413 in column (a)
(enrollment premiums of $700 x 0.59), $384 in column (b)
(applicable SLCSP premium of $650 x 0.59), and $251 in
column (f) (APTC of $425 x 0.59). Lydia leaves Form
8962, lines 21 through 23, blank because she, Meredith,
and Sam were not enrolled in a qualified health plan during October through December.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that in May, Meredith moved in with her grandmother, Lydia, and Sam moved in with his aunt, Kimberly.
On their respective tax returns, Kara files as single and
includes only herself in her tax family; David files as single
and includes only himself in his tax family; Lydia files as
head of household and includes Meredith in her tax family;
and Kimberly files as head of household and includes
Sam in her tax family. Kimberly is enrolled in employer-sponsored coverage.
Under Step 1 of Rules for the Taxpayers Who Divorced
or Legally Separated in 2025 and Are Also Allocating With
Another Taxpayer, Kara and David agree to allocate the
policy amounts 40% to Kara and 60% to David. Under
Step 2 of that method (Kara, David) and under Rules for

Publication 974 (2025)

31

the Taxpayer(s) Allocating With Taxpayers Who Divorced
or Legally Separated in 2025 (Lydia, Kimberly), Kara and
Lydia agree to allocate 50% of the policy amounts to Lydia, and Kara and Kimberly agree to allocate 25% of the
policy amounts to Kimberly. David and Lydia agree to allocate 20% of the policy amounts to Lydia, and David and
Kimberly agree to allocate 25% of the policy amounts to
Kimberly. Each of them completes a worksheet as shown
below and uses it to complete Part IV.
Kara completes Worksheet C as follows.

Kara’s Worksheet C. Allocations for Divorced
or Legally Separated Taxpayers
1. Enter as a decimal your percentage
from Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter 1.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Enter as a decimal the total of the
percentages from Step 2 above
allocated to the other
taxpayer(s) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

0.40
1.0

After completing Worksheet C, David completes Form
8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). David enters the Marketplace-assigned
policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). David enters Kara’s SSN.
Column (c). David enters “01.”
Column (d). David enters “09.”
Columns (e), (f), and (g). David enters “0.33.”
After completing Part IV, David completes his Form
8962 in the same manner described in Example 1, earlier,
but applies the different allocation percentage.
Lydia completes Worksheet D as follows.

0.75*

Lydia’s Worksheet D. Taxpayer Allocating
With Divorced or Legally Separated
Taxpayers

0.25

1.

5. Multiply line 1 by line 4. Enter the result
as a decimal. This is the allocation
percentage. Go to Step 4 below . . . . . . 5.

0.10

* This is the total of Kara’s agreed percentages with Lydia and
Kimberly (0.50 + 0.25).

After completing Worksheet C, Kara completes Form
8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). Kara enters the Marketplace-assigned
policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). Kara enters David’s SSN.

2.
3.
4.

5.

Column (c). Kara enters “01.”

6.

Column (d). Kara enters “09.”

7.

Columns (e), (f), and (g). Kara enters “0.10.”
After completing Part IV, Kara completes her Form
8962 in the same manner described in Example 1, earlier,
but applies the different allocation percentage.
David completes Worksheet C as follows.

Enter the decimal from line 1 of the
Worksheet C completed by one of the
former spouses from Step 1
above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter as a decimal the percentage
from Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Multiply line 1 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Enter the decimal from line 1 of the
Worksheet C completed by the other
former spouse from Step 2
above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Enter as a decimal the percentage
from Step 2 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
Multiply line 4 by line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add line 3 and line 6. This is the
allocation percentage. Go to Step 4
below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

0.50
0.20

0.60
0.20
0.12
0.32

After completing Worksheet D, Lydia completes Form
8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). Lydia enters the Marketplace-assigned
policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.

David’s Worksheet C. Allocations for
Divorced or Legally Separated Taxpayers

Column (b). Lydia enters Kara’s SSN.

1. Enter as a decimal your percentage
from Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter 1.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Enter as a decimal the total of the
percentages from Step 2 above
allocated to the other
taxpayer(s) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 . . . . . . . . . . 4.

Column (d). Lydia enters “09.”

Column (c). Lydia enters “01.”

0.60
1.0

0.45*

5. Multiply line 1 by line 4. Enter the result
as a decimal. This is the allocation
percentage. Go to Step 4 below . . . . . 5.

0.40

0.55

Columns (e), (f), and (g). Lydia enters “0.32.”
After completing Part IV, Lydia completes her Form
8962 in the same manner as in Example 1, earlier, but applies the different allocation percentage.
Kimberly completes Worksheet D as follows.

0.33

* This is the total of David’s agreed percentages with Lydia
and Kimberly (0.20 + 0.25).

32

Publication 974 (2025)

Kimberly’s Worksheet D. Taxpayer Allocating
With Divorced or Legally Separated
Taxpayers
1.

2.
3.
4.

5.
6.
7.

Enter the decimal from line 1 of the
Worksheet C completed by one of the
former spouses from Step 1
above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Enter as a decimal the percentage
from Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Multiply line 1 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Enter the decimal from line 1 of the
Worksheet C completed by the other
former spouse from Step 2
above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Enter as a decimal the percentage
from Step 2 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
Multiply line 4 by line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add line 3 and line 6. This is the
allocation percentage. Go to Step 4
below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

0.40
0.25
0.10

0.60
0.25
0.15
0.25

After completing Worksheet D, Kimberly completes
Form 8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). Kimberly enters the Marketplace-assigned policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). Kimberly enters Kara’s SSN.
Column (c). Kimberly enters “01.”
Column (d). Kimberly enters “09.”
Columns (e), (f), and (g). Kimberly enters “0.25.”
After completing Part IV, Kimberly completes her Form
8962 in the same manner described for Lydia in Example 1, earlier, but applies the different allocation percentage.

Allocation Among Taxpayers Who Are
Married But Not Filing a Joint Return
and One or More Other Taxpayers
Use this section if you meet either of the following conditions and no other allocations for the policy are necessary.

• You are allocating enrollment premiums and APTC

with a spouse to whom you are legally married but not
filing a joint return in 2025 and you are also allocating
enrollment premiums, applicable SLCSP premiums,
and APTC with another taxpayer who is including in
their tax family an individual who was enrolled in a
qualified health plan with members of your and your
spouse’s tax families.

• You are the taxpayer who is including in your tax family
an individual who was enrolled in the plan with tax
family members of taxpayers who must also allocate
policy amounts because the taxpayers are legally
married but not filing a joint return in 2025.

Publication 974 (2025)

Example. Pat and Jamie were married for all of 2025
and have three children, Jason, Alicia, and Dawn. All five
individuals enrolled in a qualified health plan and were
covered for all of 2025. At enrollment, Pat and Jamie expected to file a joint return and include the children in their
tax family for the year of coverage. However, Pat and Jamie change their minds and file as married filing separately and each includes only themselves in their respective tax family. Neither checks the box in the top right-hand
corner of Form 8962. Jason, Alicia, and Dawn moved in
with their uncle, Andy, in April. Andy files as head of
household and includes Jason, Alicia, and Dawn in his tax
family.
Pat and Jamie use the allocation method under Rules
for the Married Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return and
Also Allocating With Another Taxpayer next.
Andy uses the allocation method under Rules for the
Taxpayer(s) Allocating With Married Taxpayers Not Filing
a Joint Return, later.

Rules for the Married Taxpayers Not Filing a
Joint Return and Also Allocating With
Another Taxpayer
Use this allocation method if you are married but not filing
a joint return and you must allocate policy amounts with
your spouse and with a taxpayer who is including in their
tax family an individual enrolled in a qualified health plan
with members of your and your spouse’s tax families. Under this method, you must first allocate 50% each of enrollment premiums and APTC to yourself and your spouse.
Line 4 of Worksheet E accomplishes this 50% allocation.
Complete the steps below to determine the amounts to
enter on your Form 8962, Part IV.
Step 1. Determine the applicable SLCSP premium for
your coverage family. See Determining the Premium for
the Applicable Second Lowest Cost Silver Plan (SLCSP),
earlier. For this purpose, your coverage family or your
spouse’s coverage family (but not both) should include the
individuals the other taxpayer is including in their tax family and who was enrolled in a qualified health plan with
your and your spouse’s tax family members. Enter the applicable SLCSP premium you determined on line 5 of
Worksheet E.
Step 2. Separately from the first allocation (the 50%
spousal allocation), determine an allocation percentage
with the taxpayer(s) including in their tax family the individual(s) enrolled in the plan. You may agree on any allocation percentage from -0- to 100. You may use the percentage you agreed on for every month in which this allocation
rule applies, or you may agree on different percentages for
different months. However, you must use the same allocation percentage for all policy amounts (enrollment premiums, applicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC) in a month.
If you cannot agree on an allocation percentage, the allocation percentage is equal to the number of individuals the
other taxpayer includes in their tax family for the tax year
who were enrolled in the qualified health plan for which
you are allocating amounts, divided by the total number of
33

individuals enrolled in the plan. The allocation percentage
is the percentage that applies to the amounts the other
taxpayer must use to compute the PTC and reconcile it
with APTC. You must compute the PTC and reconcile
APTC using the remaining amounts.
Step 3. Complete Worksheet E below.

Worksheet E. Allocations for Married
Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return
1. Enter 1.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter as a decimal the total of the
percentage(s) from Step 2 above
allocated to the other
taxpayer(s) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . .

1.

1.0

2.
3.

4. Divide line 3 by 2.0. Enter the result as
a decimal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Enter the applicable SLCSP premium
as determined in Step 1 above. Then,
go to line 6 if you checked the box in
the top right-hand corner of Form
8962, or Exception 1 under Married
taxpayers (discussed earlier under
Terms You May Need To Know)
applies to you. Otherwise, stop
here . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Multiply line 5 by line 3. Complete
Form 8962, Part IV, as instructed in
Step 4 below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

Step 4. If you use the same percentage for every month
during which this allocation method applies, use only one
of lines 30 through 33 in Part IV to report the allocation. If
you use different percentages for different months under
Step 2, use a separate line in Part IV for each allocation
percentage. Complete the line as explained below.
Column (a). Enter the Marketplace-assigned policy
number from Form 1095-A, line 2. If the policy number on
the Form 1095-A is more than 15 characters, enter only
the last 15 characters.
Column (b). Enter the SSN of your spouse.
Column (c). Enter the first month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a percentage from January through June, enter “01” in column
(c).

Column (f). If your filing status is married filing separately and you did not check the box in the top right-hand
corner of Form 8962, leave column (f) blank. If you
checked the box, or Exception 1 under Married taxpayers
(discussed earlier under Terms You May Need To Know)
applies to you, enter the decimal from line 3 of Worksheet
E in column (f) and include the amount from line 6 of
Worksheet E in the totals on the appropriate lines of Form
8962, column (b), for the months allocated.
Column (g). Enter the decimal from line 4 of Worksheet E.

Rules for the Taxpayer(s) Allocating With
Married Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return
Use this allocation method if you are including in your tax
family an individual who was enrolled in a qualified health
plan with tax family members of taxpayers who must also
allocate policy amounts because the taxpayers are legally
married but not filing a joint return in 2025.
Step 1. Determine an allocation percentage with one of
the spouses. You may agree on any allocation percentage
from -0- to 100. You may use the percentage you agreed
on for every month in which this allocation rule applies, or
you may agree on different percentages for different
months. However, you must use the same allocation percentage for all policy amounts (enrollment premiums, applicable SLCSP premiums, and APTC) in a month. If you
cannot agree on an allocation percentage, the allocation
percentage is equal to the number of individuals you will
include in your tax family for the tax year who were enrolled in the qualified health plan for which you are allocating
policy amounts, divided by the total number of individuals
enrolled in the plan. The allocation percentage is the percentage that applies to the amounts you must use to compute the PTC and reconcile it with APTC. The spouses
must compute the PTC and reconcile APTC using the remaining amounts. Enter the percentage as a decimal on
line 1 of Worksheet F.
Step 2. Allocate the policy amounts with the second
spouse using the same rules as Step 1 above. Enter the
percentage as a decimal on line 3 of Worksheet F.
Step 3. Complete Worksheet F below.

Column (d). Enter the last month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a percentage from January through June, enter “06” in column
(d).
Column (e). If your filing status is married filing separately and you did not check the box in the top right-hand
corner of Form 8962, leave column (e) blank. If you
checked the box, or Exception 1 under Married taxpayers
(discussed earlier under Terms You May Need To Know)
applies to you, enter the decimal from line 4 of Worksheet
E in column (e).
34

Publication 974 (2025)

Worksheet F. Taxpayer Allocating With
Married Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return
Part I: Allocation Percentage for Enrollment Premiums
and APTC Paid
1. Enter as a decimal the percentage
from Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Divide line 1 by 2.0. Enter the result as
a decimal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Enter as a decimal the percentage
from Step 2 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Divide line 3 by 2.0. Enter the result as
a decimal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Add lines 2 and 4. Enter the result as a
decimal. This is your allocation
percentage for enrollment premiums
and APTC paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.
2.
3.
4.

5.

Part II: Allocation of the Applicable SLCSP Premium
6. Enter the amount of the applicable
SLCSP premium from line 5 of
Worksheet E completed by the spouse
in Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Enter the decimal from line 1 of this
worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Multiply line 6 by line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.
9. Enter the amount of the applicable
SLCSP premium from line 5 of
Worksheet E completed by the spouse
in Step 2 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.
10. Enter the decimal from line 3 of this
worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. Multiply line 9 by line 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
12. Add lines 8 and 11. This is the
applicable SLCSP premium allocated
to you that you must include in lines 12
through 23, column (b), for the months
in which this allocation applies . . . . . . 12.

Step 4. If you use the same percentage for every month
during which this allocation method applies, use only one
of lines 30 through 33 in Part IV to report the allocation. If
you use different percentages for different months, use a
separate line in Part IV for each allocation percentage.
Complete the line as explained below.
Column (a). Enter the Marketplace-assigned policy
number from Form 1095-A, line 2. If the policy number on
the Form 1095-A is more than 15 characters, enter only
the last 15 characters.

Column (d). Enter the last month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a percentage from January through June, enter “06” in column
(d).
Column (e). Enter the decimal from Worksheet F,
line 5.
Column (f). Leave column (f) blank.
Column (g). Enter the decimal from Worksheet F,
line 5.
Example. Pat and Jamie were married for all of 2025
and have three children, Jason, Alicia, and Dawn. All five
individuals enrolled in a qualified health plan and were
covered for all of 2025. For each month of coverage, the
enrollment premiums were $1,000, the premium for the
applicable SLCSP for a coverage family of five was $800,
and the APTC was $200. At enrollment, Pat and Jamie expected to file a joint return and include the children in their
tax family.
Jason, Alicia, and Dawn moved in with their uncle,
Andy, in April. On their respective tax returns, Pat and Jamie file as married filing separately and each includes only
themselves in their respective tax family. Neither checks
the box in the top right-hand corner of Form 8962. Andy
files as head of household and includes Jason, Alicia, and
Dawn in his tax family.
Pat and Jamie allocate the enrollment premiums and
the APTC 50% to Pat and 50% to Jamie. Under Step 1 of
Rules for the Married Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return
and Also Allocating With Another Taxpayer, earlier, Pat
and Jamie determine that Pat’s coverage family will include Pat, Jason, and Alicia and that Jamie’s coverage
family will include Jamie and Dawn. Pat and Jamie each
look up their applicable SLCSP premiums. The applicable
SLCSP premium for Pat’s coverage family of three is $450
and the applicable SLCSP premium for Jamie’s coverage
family of two is $400.
Under Step 2 of Rules for the Married Taxpayers Not
Filing a Joint Return and Also Allocating With Another Taxpayer (Pat, Jamie) and under Rules for the Taxpayer(s) Allocating With Married Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return
(Andy), earlier, Pat and Andy agree to allocate 67% of the
policy amounts to Andy, and Jamie and Andy agree to allocate 50% of the policy amounts to Andy. Pat, Jamie, and
Andy each complete a worksheet as shown below and
use it to complete Part IV.
Pat completes Worksheet E as follows.

Column (b). Enter the SSN of the spouse whose percentage you entered on Worksheet F, line 1.
Column (c). Enter the first month you are allocating
policy amounts. For example, if you are allocating a percentage from January through June, enter “01” in column
(c).

Publication 974 (2025)

35

Jamie’s Worksheet E. Allocations for Married
Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return

Pat’s Worksheet E. Allocations for Married
Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return
1. Enter 1.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter as a decimal the total of the
percentage(s) from Step 2 above
allocated to the other
taxpayer(s) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Divide line 3 by 2.0. Enter the result as
a decimal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Enter the applicable SLCSP premium
as determined in Step 1 above. Then,
go to line 6 if you checked the box in
the top right-hand corner of Form
8962, or Exception 1 under Married
taxpayers (discussed earlier under
Terms You May Need To Know) applies
to you. Otherwise, stop here . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Multiply line 5 by line 3. Complete
Form 8962, Part IV, as instructed in
Step 4 below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

1.0

0.67
0.33
0.17

450

After completing Worksheet E, Pat completes Form
8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). Pat enters the Marketplace-assigned policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). Pat enters Jamie’s SSN.

1. Enter 1.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter as a decimal the total of the
percentage(s) from Step 2 above
allocated to the other
taxpayer(s) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . .

1.

1.0

2.

0.50

3.

0.50

4. Divide line 3 by 2.0. Enter the result as
a decimal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Enter the applicable SLCSP premium
as determined in Step 1 above. Then,
go to line 6 if you checked the box in
the top right-hand corner of Form
8962, or Exception 1 under Married
taxpayers (discussed earlier under
Terms You May Need To Know)
applies to you. Otherwise, stop
here . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Multiply line 5 by line 3. Complete
Form 8962, Part IV, as instructed in
Step 4 below . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

Column (a). Jamie enters the Marketplace-assigned
policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). Jamie enters Pat’s SSN.

Column (d). Pat enters “12.”

Column (c). Jamie enters “01.”

Column (e). Pat leaves this column blank.

Column (d). Jamie enters “12.”

Column (f). Pat leaves this column blank.

Column (e). Jamie leaves this column blank.

Column (g). Pat enters “0.17.”

Column (f). Jamie leaves this column blank.

Jamie completes Worksheet E as follows.

400

After completing Worksheet E, Jamie completes Form
8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.

Column (c). Pat enters “01.”

After completing Part IV, Pat multiplies the APTC from
Form 1095-A, Part III, column C, by the percentage in Part
IV, column (g), and enters $34 (APTC of $200 x 0.17) in
column (f) of Form 8962, lines 12 through 23. Pat leaves
lines 12 through 23, columns (a) through (e), blank because he is not eligible to take the PTC.

0.25

Column (g). Jamie enters “0.25.”
After completing Part IV, Jamie multiplies the APTC
from Form 1095-A, Part III, column C, by the percentage in
Part IV, column (g), and enters $50 (APTC of $200 x 0.25)
in column (f) of Form 8962, lines 12 through 23. Jamie
leaves lines 12 through 23, columns (a) through (e), blank
because she is not eligible to take the PTC.
Andy completes Worksheet F as follows.

36

Publication 974 (2025)

Andy’s Worksheet F. Taxpayer Allocating With
Married Taxpayers Not Filing a Joint Return

Worksheet F, line 12), and $118 in column (f) (APTC of
$200 x 0.59).

Part I: Allocation Percentage for Enrollment Premiums
and APTC Paid

Other Taxpayers Allocating Policy
Amounts With Two or More Other
Taxpayers

1. Enter as a decimal the percentage
from Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Divide line 1 by 2.0. Enter the result as
a decimal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Enter as a decimal the percentage
from Step 2 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Divide line 3 by 2.0. Enter the result as
a decimal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Add lines 2 and 4. Enter the result as a
decimal. This is your allocation
percentage for enrollment premiums
and APTC paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

0.67

2.

0.34

3.

0.50

4.

0.25

5.

0.59

Part II: Allocation of the Applicable SLCSP Premium
6. Enter the amount of the applicable
SLCSP premium from line 5 of
Worksheet E completed by the spouse
in Step 1 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Enter the decimal from line 1 of this
worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Multiply line 6 by line 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.
9. Enter the amount of the applicable
SLCSP premium from line 5 of
Worksheet E completed by the spouse
in Step 2 above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.
10. Enter the decimal from line 3 of this
worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. Multiply line 9 by line 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
12. Add lines 8 and 11. This is the
applicable SLCSP premium allocated
to you that you must include in lines 12
through 23, column (b), for the months
in which this allocation applies . . . . . . 12.

450
0.67
302

400
0.50
200

502

After completing Worksheet F, Andy completes Form
8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). Andy enters the Marketplace-assigned
policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). Andy enters Pat’s SSN.
Column (c). Andy enters “01.”
Column (d). Andy enters “12.”
Column (e). Andy enters “0.59.”
Column (f). Andy leaves this column blank.
Column (g). Andy enters “0.59.”
After completing Part IV, Andy multiplies the amounts
from Form 1095-A, Part III, by the corresponding percentages in Part IV, and enters these allocated amounts in
Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, columns (a), (b), and (f).
On each of those lines, he will enter $590 in column (a)
(enrollment premiums of $1,000 x 0.59), $502 in column
(b) (applicable SLCSP premium allocated to him on
Publication 974 (2025)

If you or another person in your tax family was enrolled in
a qualified health plan with individuals in at least two other
tax families, APTC was paid for coverage under the policy,
and you don’t meet the rules for divorce or for married individuals filing separate returns, you and the taxpayers
who are including in their tax family the individuals not in
your tax family should use the instructions for Form 8962
under Allocation Situation 4 to allocate amounts from the
qualified health plan. There must be an allocation percentage for each taxpayer who is including in their tax family
an individual who is enrolled in a qualified health plan with
a member of your tax family. If you cannot agree on an allocation percentage with all taxpayers who are including
enrolled individuals in a tax family, the allocation percentage for a particular taxpayer is equal to the number of individuals the taxpayer will include in their tax family for the
tax year who were enrolled in the qualified health plan for
which you are allocating policy amounts, divided by the total number of individuals enrolled in the plan.
Example 1. Erik enrolled himself and his sons, Bill and
Arvind, in a qualified health plan with coverage effective
for all of 2025. For the year, the enrollment premiums were
$8,000; the premium for the applicable SLCSP for a coverage family consisting of Erik, Bill, and Arvind was $9,000;
and the APTC paid for their coverage was $4,500. In
March, Bill dropped out of school to work full-time and
moved permanently into his own apartment. In May, Arvind moved in with his mother Sharon, where he lived until
the end of 2025. On their respective tax returns, Erik files
as single and includes only himself in his tax family, Bill
files as single and includes only himself in his tax family,
and Sharon files as head of household and includes herself and Arvind in her tax family.
Erik and Bill agree to allocate 25% of the policy
amounts to Bill. Erik and Sharon agree to allocate 40% of
the policy amounts to Sharon. Erik allocates the remaining
35% of the policy amounts to himself.
Bill completes Form 8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). Bill enters the Marketplace-assigned policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). Bill enters Erik’s SSN.
Column (c). Bill enters “01.”
Column (d). Bill enters “12.”
Columns (e), (f), and (g). Bill enters an allocation
percentage of “0.25.”
After completing Part IV, Bill multiplies the amounts
from Form 1095-A, Part III, by the corresponding percentages in Part IV, and enters these allocated amounts in his
Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, columns (a), (b), and (f).
The sum of his monthly entries will be $2,000 in column
37

(a) (enrollment premiums of $8,000 x 0.25), $2,250 in column (b) (applicable SLCSP premium of $9,000 x 0.25),
and $1,125 in column (f) (APTC of $4,500 x 0.25).
Sharon completes Form 8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). Sharon enters the Marketplace-assigned
policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). Sharon enters Erik’s SSN.
Column (c). Sharon enters “01.”
Column (d). Sharon enters “12.”
Columns (e), (f), and (g). Sharon enters an allocation
percentage of “0.40.”
After completing Part IV, Sharon multiplies the amounts
from Form 1095-A, Part III, by the corresponding percentages in Part IV, and enters these allocated amounts in
Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, columns (a), (b), and (f).
The sum of her monthly entries will be $3,200 in column
(a) (enrollment premiums of $8,000 x 0.40), $3,600 in column (b) (applicable SLCSP premium of $9,000 x 0.40),
and $1,800 in column (f) (APTC of $4,500 x 0.40).
Erik completes Form 8962, Part IV, line 30, as follows.
Column (a). Erik enters the Marketplace-assigned
policy number from Form 1095-A, line 2.
Column (b). Erik enters either Bill’s SSN or Sharon’s
SSN.
Column (c). Erik enters “01.”
Column (d). Erik enters “12.”
Columns (e), (f), and (g). Erik enters an allocation
percentage of “0.35,” which is the percentage of policy
amounts not allocated to Bill or Sharon.
After completing Part IV, Erik multiplies the amounts
from Form 1095-A, Part III, by the corresponding percentages in Part IV, and enters these allocated amounts in his
Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, columns (a), (b), and (f).
The sum of his monthly entries will be $2,800 in column
(a) (enrollment premiums of $8,000 x 0.35), $3,150 in column (b) (applicable SLCSP premium of $9,000 x 0.35),
and $1,575 in column (f) (APTC of $4,500 x 0.35).
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except Erik and Bill cannot agree on an allocation percentage. Because Erik did not agree on an allocation percentage with all taxpayers who are including individuals in a
tax family, Bill and Sharon determine their allocation percentages of 33% by dividing the number of enrolled individuals each will include in their tax family (1 each for Bill
and Sharon) by the number of individuals enrolled in the
plan (3, Erik, Bill, and Arvind). Erik’s allocation percentage
is 34%, which is the percentage of policy amounts not allocated to Bill and Sharon. Each taxpayer completes Part
IV as explained in Example 1 using these percentages.

38

Alternative Calculation for Year
of Marriage
If you got married during 2025 and APTC was paid for an
individual in your tax family, you may want to use the alternative calculation for year of marriage, an optional calculation that may reduce the amount of excess APTC you
would have to repay under the general rules. Before you
read this section, first read the instructions for line 9 in the
Instructions for Form 8962. Complete Table 4 and, if required, Worksheet 3 in those instructions.
Caution: If you do not meet either of the above conditions, you are not eligible to elect the alternative calculation. Leave Form 8962, Part V, blank.
If you are eligible, electing the alternative calculation
may reduce the amount of excess APTC you have to repay. Electing the alternative calculation is optional. Worksheet V will tell you whether the alternative calculation will
benefit you.
Before you begin the steps, determine your alternative family size and your spouse’s alternative family size
using the instructions under Alternative Family Size next.
Then, read Table A to determine which steps to complete.

Alternative Family Size
Alternative family size is used to determine an alternative
monthly contribution amount (see Monthly contribution
amount under Terms You May Need To Know, earlier) on
Worksheets I and III, which may reduce the amount of excess APTC for the pre-marriage months that you must repay.
When determining your alternative family size, include
yourself and any individual in the tax family who qualifies
as your dependent for the year under the rules explained
in the Instructions for Form 1040 or the Instructions for
Form 1040-NR. Do not include any individual who does
not qualify as your dependent under those rules or who is
included in your spouse’s alternative family size.
When determining your spouse’s alternative family size,
include your spouse and any individual in the tax family
who qualifies as your spouse’s dependent for the year under the rules explained in the Instructions for Form 1040 or
the Instructions for Form 1040-NR. Do not include any individual who does not qualify as your spouse’s dependent
under those rules or who is included in your alternative
family size.
Note: You may include an individual who qualifies as
the dependent of both you and your spouse in either alternative family size.
Example 1. Ron, Suzy, and their son Max have lived
together since July 2024. Ron and Suzy got married in August 2025. Each of them had coverage under a qualified
health plan for the months before September. Max
qualifies as Ron’s dependent under the rules explained in
Publication 974 (2025)

the Instructions for Form 1040. Max also qualifies as Suzy’s dependent under those rules. Ron and Suzy can include Max in either alternative family size.
Example 2. Rob and his son Liam lived together from
January through May 2025. On June 10, 2025, Rob married Tara. She moved in with Rob and Liam on June 11.
Each of them had coverage under a qualified health plan
for the months before July. Liam qualifies as Rob’s dependent under the rules explained in the Instructions for
Form 1040. Liam also qualifies as Tara’s dependent under
those rules. (Liam is Tara’s stepchild and lived with Tara
for more than half of 2025.) Rob and Tara can include
Liam in either alternative family size.
Example 3. Stacey and her daughter Leia lived together from January through July 2025. Stacey married
Vince in August 2025, and Vince moved in with Stacey
and Leia. Each of them had coverage under a qualified
health plan for the months before September. Leia qualifies as Stacey’s dependent under the rules explained in
the Instructions for Form 1040. Leia does not qualify as
Vince’s dependent under those rules because Leia did not
live with Vince for more than half of 2025. Stacey must include Leia in her alternative family size. Vince cannot include Leia in his alternative family size.

Table A. Which Steps To Complete
Answer the following questions to determine which
steps to complete.
1. Have you determined your and your spouse’s alternative family
size as explained earlier under Alternative Family Size?
Yes. Go to question 2.
No. Read Alternative Family Size. Then, go to question 2.
2. Is there an individual in your alternative family size (including
yourself) who was enrolled in a qualified health plan for 1 or more
of your pre-marriage months?*
Yes. Complete Steps 1, 2, and 5. Go to question 3.
No. Go to question 3.
3. Is there an individual in your spouse’s alternative family size
(including your spouse) who was enrolled in a qualified health plan
for 1 or more of your pre-marriage months?*
Yes. Complete Steps 3, 4, and 5. Go to question 4.
No. Go to question 4.
4. The instructions for Step 5 will prompt you to complete Worksheet
V. If you check “Yes” on Worksheet V, line 14, complete Steps 6, 7,
and 8.
* Your pre-marriage months include the month you got married.

Tip: If you completed Part IV of Form 8962, do not include
any amounts from Form(s) 1095-A that were allocated to
another taxpayer when completing the steps for your and
your spouse’s alternative calculation.

Step 1

Worksheet for Line 4 of Worksheet I
Use this worksheet to figure the amount to enter on line 4
of Worksheet I.
1. Enter the amount from line 2 of Worksheet I

. . . . . . . 1.

2. Enter the amount from line 3 of
Worksheet I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Multiply the amount on line 2 by 4.0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Is the amount on line 1 more than the amount on
line 3?
Yes. Enter 401 here and on line 4 of Worksheet I.
No. Divide the amount on line 1 by the amount on
line 2. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not
round; instead, multiply this number by 100 (to
express it as a percentage) and then drop any
numbers after the decimal point. Enter the result here
and on line 4 of Worksheet I. For example, for 0.9984,
enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as
185; and for 3.997, enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . 4.

Step 2
Complete Worksheet II to determine your alternative
monthly credit amounts to include in Form 8962, lines 12
through 23, column (e), for your pre-marriage months. Enter in columns A and B on Worksheet II the amounts from
columns A and B in Part III of the Form(s) 1095-A that reports coverage for all individuals in your tax family enrolled
in a qualified health plan for 1 or more pre-marriage
months, including yourself, who are (a) included in Part II
of a Form 1095-A sent to you for the pre-marriage months;
or (b) not included in Part II of the Form 1095-A sent to
you or to your spouse, but who are included in your alternative family size.
Missing or incorrect SLCSP premium. For your
pre-marriage months, if there were changes in your coverage family that you did not report to the Marketplace or
APTC was not paid for the coverage, or there is an individual in your coverage family not included in Part II of the
Form 1095-A sent to you who is included in your alternative family size, you may have to determine a new premium for your applicable SLCSP for those months. See
Determining the Premium for the Applicable Second Lowest Cost Silver Plan (SLCSP), earlier.

Step 3
Complete Worksheet III if there is an individual included in
your spouse’s alternative family size who was enrolled in a
qualified health plan for 1 or more of your pre-marriage
months.

Worksheet for Line 4 of Worksheet III

Use this worksheet to figure the amount to enter on line 4
of Worksheet III.

Complete Worksheet I if there is an individual included in
your alternative family size who was enrolled in a qualified
health plan for 1 or more of your pre-marriage months.

Publication 974 (2025)

39

1. Enter the amount from line 2 of Worksheet III . . . . . .

1.

2. Enter the amount from line 3 of
Worksheet III . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Multiply the amount on line 2 by 4.0

............

4. Is the amount on line 1 more than the amount on
line 3?
Yes. Enter 401 here and on line 4 of Worksheet III.
No. Divide the amount on line 1 by the amount on
line 2. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not
round; instead, multiply this number by 100 (to
express it as a percentage) and then drop any
numbers after the decimal point. Enter the result here
and on line 4 of Worksheet III. For example, for
0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the
result as 185; and for 3.997, enter the result
as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

Step 5
After you have completed Steps 1 and 2 and/or Steps 3
and 4, complete Worksheet V to determine what entries
you must make on Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, for
your pre-marriage months.

Step 6
4.

Step 4
Complete Worksheet IV to determine your spouse’s alternative monthly credit amounts to include in Form 8962,
lines 12 through 23, column (e), for your pre-marriage
months. Enter in columns A and B of Worksheet IV the
amounts from columns A and B in Part III of the Form(s)
1095-A that reports coverage for all individuals in your tax
family enrolled in a qualified health plan for 1 or more
pre-marriage months, including your spouse, who are (a)
included in Part II of a Form 1095-A sent to your spouse
for the pre-marriage months; or (b) not included in Part II
of the Form 1095-A sent to you or to your spouse, but who
are included in your spouse’s alternative family size.
Missing or incorrect SLCSP premium. For your
pre-marriage months, if there were changes in your spouse’s coverage family that your spouse did not report to the
Marketplace or APTC was not paid for the coverage, or
there is an individual in your spouse’s coverage family not
included in Part II of the Form 1095-A sent to your spouse
who is included in your spouse’s alternative family size,

40

your spouse may have to determine a new premium for
the applicable SLCSP for those months. See Determining
the Premium for the Applicable Second Lowest Cost Silver
Plan (SLCSP), earlier.

Complete Form 8962, lines 35 and 36, using the following
instructions. Follow these instructions only if you checked
“Yes” on Worksheet V, line 14.
Line 35.

• Column (a): Enter the family size from Worksheet I,
line 1.

• Column (b): Enter the amount from Worksheet I,
line 7.

• Column (c): Enter the month from Worksheet I, line 8.
• Column (d): Enter the month from Worksheet I, line 9.
Line 36.

• Column (a): Enter the family size from Worksheet III,
line 1.

• Column (b): Enter the amount from Worksheet III,
line 7.

• Column (c): Enter the month from Worksheet III,
line 8.

• Column (d): Enter the month from Worksheet III,
line 9.

Publication 974 (2025)

Step 7
Complete Form 8962, lines 12 through 23, columns (a)
through (f), using the following instructions. Follow these
instructions only if you checked “Yes” on Worksheet V,
line 14.
Column (a). Enter the amounts from column (a) of Worksheet 3 in the Form 8962 instructions.
Column (b). Enter the amounts from column (b) of Worksheet 3 in the Form 8962 instructions.
Column (c). For pre-marriage months, enter the totals of
Worksheet II, column C, and Worksheet IV, column C. For
example, if you entered $200 in column C of Worksheet II,
lines 1 through 5, and you entered $250 in column C of
Worksheet IV, lines 3 through 5, enter $200 on lines 12
and 13, and $450 on lines 14 through 16 of Form 8962,
column (c).
For the months you were married for the entire month,
enter the amount from Form 8962, line 8b.

Publication 974 (2025)

Column (d). Subtract column (c) from column (b) and
enter the result. If zero or less, enter -0-.
Column (e). For your pre-marriage months, enter the
amounts from lines 1 through 12, column A, of Worksheet
V in the boxes for the corresponding months in column (e).
For the months you were married for the entire month,
enter the smaller of column (a) or (d).
Column (f). Enter the amounts from column (f) of Worksheet 3 in the Form 8962 instructions.

Step 8
Continue to Form 8962, line 24, and complete the rest of
the form.
Line 26. Enter -0-.
Lines 27 through 29. If line 24 is less than line 25, complete these lines. Otherwise, leave these lines blank.

41

Worksheet I. Your Alternative Monthly Contribution
Amount

Keep for Your Records

1. Alternative family size: Enter the total number of individuals in your alternative family size
(discussed earlier) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. One-half of household income: Divide Form 8962, line 3, by 2.0. Round to the nearest whole
dollar amount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Alternative federal poverty line: Enter the federal poverty line amount as determined by your
alternative family size on line 1 above and the federal poverty table you used on Form 8962,
line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Alternative household income as a percentage of federal poverty line: Enter the amount from the
worksheet under Step 1.
Continue to Step 3 if you checked “Yes” for question 3 in Table A. Otherwise, if you did not complete
Part IV of Form 8962, check “No” on line 9 of Form 8962 and continue to line 10. If you completed
Part IV of Form 8962, check “No” on line 10, and see Lines 12 Through 23 in the Instructions for
Form 8962 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Alternative applicable figure: Using your line 4 percentage, locate your applicable figure in Table 2 in
the Instructions for Form 8962 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6. Multiply line 2 by line 5 and enter the result rounded to the nearest whole dollar amount . . . . . . . . .
7. Alternative monthly contribution amount: Divide line 6 by 12.0 and enter the result rounded to the
nearest whole dollar amount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Alternative start month: Enter the first full month you or any individual included in your alternative
family size on line 1 had coverage under a qualified health plan. For example, enter “02” if you were
enrolled in a qualified health plan with coverage effective on February 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. Alternative stop month: Enter the last month you or any individual included in your alternative family
size on line 1 had coverage under a qualified health plan or the month in which you got married,
whichever is earlier. For example, enter “09” if you had coverage under a qualified health plan for all
of 2025 and you got married on September 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Worksheet II. Your Alternative Monthly Credit Amounts for
Pre-Marriage Months

1.
2.
3.

4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

9.

Keep for Your Records

Complete this worksheet only for months beginning with the month on line 8 of Worksheet I and ending with the month
on line 9 of Worksheet I. For example, if you entered “02” on Worksheet I, line 8, and “10” on Worksheet I, line 9, complete only lines 2 through 10 of this worksheet.
Monthly
calculation

A. Form(s) 1095-A, B. Form(s) 1095-A,
lines 21–32,
lines 21–32,
column A*
column B*

C. Worksheet I,
line 7

D. Subtract C from
B (If zero or less,
enter -0-.)

E. Smaller of
column A or
column D

1 January
2 February
3 March
4 April
5 May
6 June
7 July
8 August
9 September
10 October
11 November
12 December
* See Step 2, earlier, for instructions on the Form 1095-A amounts to report on this worksheet.
After completing this worksheet: Continue to Step 3 if you checked “Yes” for question 3 in Table A. Otherwise, go to Step 5.

42

Publication 974 (2025)

Worksheet III. Your Spouse’s Alternative Monthly
Contribution Amount

Keep for Your Records

1. Alternative family size: Enter the total number of individuals in your spouse’s alternative family size
(discussed earlier) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. One-half of household income: Divide Form 8962, line 3, by 2.0. Round to the nearest whole
dollar amount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Alternative federal poverty line: Enter the federal poverty line amount as determined by your
spouse’s alternative family size on line 1 above and the federal poverty table you used on Form
8962, line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Alternative household income as a percentage of federal poverty line: Enter the amount from the
worksheet under Step 3. If you completed Step 2, continue to Step 5. If you did not complete Step 2
and you did not complete Part IV of Form 8962, check “No” on line 9 of Form 8962 and continue to
line 10. If you did not complete Step 2 and you completed Part IV of Form 8962, check “No” on
line 10, and see Lines 12 Through 23 in the Instructions for Form 8962 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Alternative applicable figure: Using your line 4 percentage, locate your applicable figure in Table 2 in
the Instructions for Form 8962 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.
2.
3.

4.
5.

6. Multiply line 2 by line 5 and enter the result rounded to the nearest whole dollar amount . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Alternative monthly contribution amount: Divide line 6 by 12.0 and enter the result rounded to the
nearest whole dollar amount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Alternative start month: Enter the first full month your spouse or any individual included in your
spouse’s alternative family size on line 1 had coverage under a qualified health plan. For example,
enter “05” if your spouse was enrolled in a qualified health plan with coverage effective on May 1 . . . 8.
9. Alternative stop month: Enter the last month your spouse or any individual included in your spouse’s
alternative family size on line 1 had coverage under a qualified health plan or the month in which you
got married, whichever is earlier. For example, enter “07” if your spouse’s coverage under a
qualified health plan (and the coverage of all individuals included in your spouse’s alternative family
size) terminated July 31 and you got married on September 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.

Worksheet IV. Your Spouse’s Alternative Monthly Credit
Amounts for Pre-Marriage Months

Keep for Your Records

Complete this worksheet only for months beginning with the month on line 8 of Worksheet III and ending with the
month on line 9 of Worksheet III. For example, if you entered “05” on Worksheet III, line 8, and “10” on Worksheet III,
line 9, complete only lines 5 through 10 of this worksheet.
Monthly
calculation

A. Form(s) 1095-A, B. Form(s) 1095-A,
lines 21–32,
lines 21–32,
column A*
column B*

C. Worksheet III,
line 7

D. Subtract C from
B (If zero or less,
enter -0-.)

E. Smaller of
column A or
column D

1 January
2 February
3 March
4 April
5 May
6 June
7 July
8 August
9 September
10 October
11 November
12 December
* See Step 4, earlier, for instructions on the Form 1095-A amounts to report on this worksheet.
After completing this worksheet: Continue to Step 5.

Publication 974 (2025)

43

Worksheet V. Alternative Calculation for Year of Marriage
Totals Worksheet

Keep for Your Records

Column A. Complete column A below only for the months you have entries in column E of Worksheet II and/or Worksheet IV. Leave column A blank for all other months. Add the amounts in column E of Worksheets II and IV separately for
each month and enter the total in column A below on the line for the same month.
Column B. Complete column B below for any month you have an entry in column A. For each month, enter the corresponding amount from lines 1 through 12, column (e), of Worksheet 3 under Line 9 in the Instructions for Form 8962.
A. Total alternative
premium assistance
amounts

Monthly calculation
1 January . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1

2 February . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2

3 March . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3

4 April . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4

5 May . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5

6 June . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6

7 July . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7

8 August . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8

9 September . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9

B. Premium assistance
amounts (regular
calculation)

10 October . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
11 November . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
12 December . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
13 Totals: Enter the total of column A, lines 1 through 12, and the
total of column B, lines 1 through 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
14 Is column A of line 13 more than column B of line 13?
Yes. Your alternative calculation reduces your excess APTC. If you did not complete Part IV of Form 8962, check “Yes” on
line 9. Also, check “No” on line 10. Continue to Steps 6, 7, and 8, earlier.
No. The alternative calculation does not reduce your excess APTC. Leave Form 8962, Part V, blank.

• If you did not complete Part IV of Form 8962, check “No” on line 9 and continue to Form 8962, line 10. If you are required to
•

use lines 12 through 23 of Form 8962, enter the amounts from lines 1 through 12 of Worksheet 3 in the Form 8962
instructions on the lines for the corresponding months and columns on Form 8962.
If you completed Part IV of Form 8962, check “No” on line 10. Enter the amounts from lines 1 through 12 of Worksheet 3 in
the Form 8962 instructions on the lines for the corresponding months and columns on Form 8962, lines 12 through 23.

Example of the Alternative
Calculation for Year of Marriage
The following example describes the alternative calculation for year of marriage for Paulette Oak and Quentin Cedar.
In 2025, Paulette and Quentin were single and maintained separate residences until they got married on July
18.
Paulette has no dependents. She was enrolled in a
qualified health plan from January 1 through July 31. The
Marketplace sent her a Form 1095-A showing her enrollment information for this 7-month period.
Quentin has two dependent children. He and his two
children were enrolled in a qualified health plan from January 1 through July 31. The Marketplace sent him a Form
1095-A showing his enrollment information for this
7-month period.
44

From August 1 through December 31, 2025, Paulette,
Quentin, and Quentin’s two dependent children were enrolled together in a different qualified health plan. The
Marketplace sent them a Form 1095-A showing their enrollment information for this 5-month period.
Paulette and Quentin first complete lines 1 through 8 of
Form 8962. Then, they read the instructions for line 9 and
complete Table 4 and Worksheet 3 in the Form 8962 instructions and Worksheets I through V in this publication.
Using the information in the worksheets and on Forms
1095-A, they complete lines 9 through 29, 35, and 36 of
Form 8962.

Paulette and Quentin’s Form 8962, Lines 1
Through 11
Paulette and Quentin fill out Form 8962, lines 1 through
11, as follows.
Publication 974 (2025)

Line 1. They enter “4” because this is the number of individuals they included in their tax family.
Line 2a. They enter $117,000, which they figured using
Worksheet 1-1 in the Form 8962 instructions.
Line 2b. They leave line 2b blank because neither of
Quentin’s dependent children is required to file a federal
income tax return.
Line 3. They enter $117,000, the sum of lines 2a and 2b.
Line 4. They enter $31,200 from Table 1-1 in the Form
8962 instructions. This is the federal poverty line for a family size of 4. They also check box c on line 4.
Line 5. Using Worksheet 2 in the Form 8962 instructions,
they divide line 3 ($117,000) by line 4 ($31,200) to get
375%.

Step 1 (Paulette’s Worksheet I)
Line 1. They enter “1” as Paulette’s alternative family size
because she can include only herself. She can’t include
either of Quentin’s children in her alternative family size
because neither of them lived with her for more than half
of 2025 and she could not claim them as dependents.
Lines 2 through 9. They complete these lines according
to the instructions on the worksheet.

Step 2 (Paulette’s Worksheet II)
They complete Worksheet II only for January through July
(the month Paulette and Quentin got married). They complete columns A and B using the amounts shown on Paulette’s Form 1095-A. They complete columns C and D according to the instructions shown on the worksheet.

Line 7. They enter their applicable figure of 0.0788 from
Table 2 in the Instructions for Form 8962. According to the
fourth column of Table 2, 0.0788 is the applicable figure if
the amount on line 5 is 375%.

Step 3 (Quentin’s Worksheet III)

Line 8a. They multiply line 3 ($117,000) by line 7
(0.0788) and enter the result, $9,604.

Lines 2 through 9. They complete these lines according
to the instructions on the worksheet.

Line 8b. They divide line 8a ($9,220) by 12.0 and enter
the result, $768.

Step 4 (Quentin’s Worksheet IV)

Line 9. Paulette and Quentin read the instructions for
line 9, which explain that because they got married in
2025, they may be eligible to complete Part V to elect the
alternative calculation for year of marriage. This calculation may reduce the amount of excess APTC they would
otherwise have to repay.
The preliminary steps in determining whether they may
be eligible are to complete Table 4 and Worksheet 3 in the
Form 8962 instructions. Worksheet 3 would show that if
Paulette and Quentin do not elect the alternative calculation, their total PTC will be $5,481 (line 13, column (e)).
The excess APTC they will have to pay with their tax return
is $2,942, which is the difference between $8,423 (APTC
for the year on line 13, column (f)) and $5,481.
Because Paulette and Quentin checked “Yes” on
line 14 of Worksheet 3, they complete Worksheets I
through V to determine if the alternative calculation for
year of marriage will benefit them. They complete Worksheets I through V before they check any of the boxes on
line 9. As explained under Step 5 (Worksheet V), later,
they qualify for the alternative calculation for year of marriage and check “Yes” on line 9.

They complete Worksheet IV only for January through July
(the month Paulette and Quentin got married). They complete columns A and B using the amounts shown on
Quentin’s Form 1095-A. They complete columns C and D
according to the instructions shown on the worksheet.

Line 10. As explained under Step 5 (Worksheet V), later,
they check “No” on line 10.
Line 11. Because Paulette and Quentin checked “No” on
line 10, they skip line 11 and complete lines 12 through 23
to figure their monthly PTC.

Line 1. They enter “3” as Quentin’s alternative family size
consisting of Quentin and his two dependent children.

Step 5 (Worksheet V)
Quentin and Paulette complete Worksheet V only for the
months they have entries in column E of Worksheets II
and IV (January through July). They qualify for the alternative calculation for year of marriage because line 13, column A ($5,026), is more than line 13, column B ($3,486).
Accordingly, they check “Yes” on line 14. They also check
“Yes” on Form 8962, line 9; check “No” on line 10; and
continue to Steps 6, 7, and 8 in this publication.

Step 6
Paulette and Quentin complete lines 35 and 36 as explained below.
Line 35.

• Column (a): They enter “1,” Paulette’s alternative family size from Worksheet I, line 1.

• Column (b): They enter $400, Paulette’s alternative

monthly contribution amount from Worksheet I, line 7.

• Column (c): They enter “01,” the alternative start
month from Worksheet I, line 8.

• Column (d): They enter “07,” the alternative stop
month from Worksheet I, line 9.

Publication 974 (2025)

45

Line 36.

• Column (a): They enter “3,” Quentin’s alternative family size from Worksheet III, line 1.

19 through 23, they enter $399, the smaller of column (a)
or (d).

• Column (b): They enter $148, Quentin’s alternative

Column (f). On lines 12 through 18, they enter $794 and
$573 on lines 19 through 23, the monthly amounts from
column (f) of Worksheet 3.

• Column (c): They enter “01,” the alternative start

Step 8

• Column (d): They enter “07,” the alternative stop

Paulette and Quentin complete lines 24 through 29 as explained below.

Step 7

Line 24. They add the amounts on lines 12 through 23,
column (e), and enter the total, $7,021. (As explained earlier under Line 9, their total PTC would be only $5,481 if
they did not elect the alternative calculation.)

monthly contribution amount from Worksheet III,
line 7.

month from Worksheet III, line 8.
month from Worksheet III, line 9.

Paulette and Quentin complete lines 12 through 23 as
explained below.
Column (a). On lines 12 through 18, they enter $1,500
and $1,350 on lines 19 through 23, the monthly amounts
from column (a) of Worksheet 3.
Column (b). On lines 12 through 18, they enter $1,266
and $1,167 on lines 19 through 23, the monthly amounts
from column (b) of Worksheet 3.
Column (c). On lines 12 through 18, they enter $548, the
monthly totals from Worksheet II, column C, and Worksheet IV, column C. On lines 19 through 23, they enter
$768, the amount from Form 8962, line 8b.
Column (d). They enter the difference between columns
(c) and (b).
Column (e). On lines 12 through 18, they enter $718, the
monthly amounts from column A of Worksheet V. On lines

46

Line 25. They add the amounts on lines 12 through 23,
column (f), and enter the total, $8,423.
Line 26. According to Step 8, they enter -0- because they
elected the alternative calculation for year of marriage.
Line 27. They subtract line 24 from line 25 and enter the
difference, $1,402.
Line 28. They enter the repayment limitation of $3,250
from Table 5 in the Form 8962 instructions.
Line 29. They enter $1,402. This is the smaller of line 27
or line 28. They also enter $1,402 on Schedule 2 (Form
1040), line 1a. (As explained earlier under Line 9, the excess APTC they would have to pay would be $2,942 if they
did not elect the alternative calculation.)

Publication 974 (2025)

Self-Employed Health
Insurance Deduction and PTC
This part provides special instructions for figuring the
self-employed health insurance deduction and PTC if you
or your spouse was self-employed, you or a member of
your tax family was enrolled in a qualified health plan in
2025, and you may be eligible for the PTC. Because the
amount of the self-employed health insurance deduction
may affect the amount of the PTC, and the amount of the
PTC may affect the amount of the deduction, a taxpayer
who may be eligible for both may have difficulty determining the amounts of those items. A taxpayer who may be eligible for both may follow the instructions in this part to determine amounts of the self-employed health insurance
deduction and PTC that are allowable under the law.
Caution: Using the special instructions in this part is optional. If you are eligible for both a self-employed health insurance deduction and the PTC for the same premiums,
you may use any computation method that results in reporting amounts that satisfy the rules for both the deduction and PTC, as long as the sum of the deduction claimed
for the premiums and the PTC computed, taking the deduction into account, is less than or equal to the enrollment premiums.
Before you complete any of the worksheets in this part,
you should first do the following.

• Read the instructions for line 17 of Schedule 1 (Form
1040) to find out if you meet the requirements for
claiming the self-employed health insurance deduction.

• Read the Instructions for Form 8962 to find out if you

meet the requirements for claiming the PTC except for
the requirement that your household income be at
least 100% of the federal poverty line for your family
size for 2025. You will determine whether you meet the
100% requirement in the process of completing these
instructions.

Publication 974 (2025)

If you meet the requirements described above, do the
following.

• If you are filing Schedule 1 (Form 1040), complete

lines 18 (“Penalty on early withdrawal of savings”) and
19a (“Alimony paid”). Also, figure any write-in adjustments you will enter on the dotted line next to line 26.

• Complete line 20 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040) if you

made contributions to a traditional individual retirement arrangement (IRA) and you (and your spouse if
filing a joint return) were not covered by a retirement
plan at work or through self-employment.

• If you elect to report your child’s interest and dividends
on your tax return, complete Form 8814, Parents’
Election To Report Child’s Interest and Dividends.

Using this information, do the following.
1. If you have health insurance premiums for which you
cannot claim the PTC (see Nonspecified premiums,
later), first complete Worksheet P or, if required, Form
7206 but only with respect to those premiums. Skip
Worksheets W and X if either of the following applies.
a. You completed Worksheet P and line 2 is less than
or equal to line 1.
b. You completed Form 7206 and line 13 is equal to
or less than line 3.
2. Then, complete Worksheet W and Worksheet X. You
have to complete Worksheet X only if APTC was paid
to your insurer on your behalf for the months you were
self-employed. If APTC was not paid to your insurer
on your behalf for the months you were self-employed, skip Worksheet X.
3. After completing Worksheets W and X, you may
choose to use either the Simplified Calculation
Method or the Iterative Calculation Method to compute your self-employed health insurance deduction
and PTC. The Simplified Calculation Method is
shorter, but in some cases will not produce a result as
favorable as the Iterative Calculation Method.

47

Worksheet P. Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction for
Nonspecified Premiums
Before you begin:
1.

2.

3.

Keep for Your Records

Read Exceptions, later, to see if you can use this worksheet instead of Form 7206 to figure your deduction
for nonspecified premiums. Also, read the definitions of specified premiums and nonspecified premiums.

Enter the total amount of nonspecified premiums paid in 2025 for health insurance coverage
established under your business (or the S corporation in which you were a more-than-2%
shareholder) for 2025 for you, your spouse, and your dependents. Your insurance can also
cover your child who was under age 27 at the end of 2025, even if the child was not your
dependent. But do not include amounts for any month you were eligible to participate in an
employer-sponsored health plan or amounts paid from retirement plan distributions that were
nontaxable because you are a retired public safety officer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter your net profit* and any other earned income** from the business under which the
insurance plan is established, minus any deductions on lines 15 and 16 of Schedule 1 (Form
1040). Do not include Conservation Reserve Program payments exempt from
self-employment tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Self-employed health insurance deduction for nonspecified premiums. Enter the
smaller of line 1 or line 2. Do not include this amount in figuring any medical expense
deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
• If line 2 is equal to or less than line 1, stop here. Do not read the rest of these special
instructions. Enter this amount on line 17 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040). Use Form 8962 to
figure the PTC for specified premiums.
• If line 2 is more than line 1, complete Worksheet W. Also, complete Worksheet X if APTC
was paid to your insurer on your behalf for the months you were self-employed. If APTC
was not paid to your insurer on your behalf for the months you were self-employed, skip
Worksheet X.

1.

2.
3.

* If you used either optional method to figure your net earnings from self-employment, do not enter your net profit. Instead, enter the
amount from Schedule SE, line 4b.
** Earned income includes net earnings and gains from the sale, transfer, or licensing of property you created. However, it does not
include capital gain income. If you were a more-than-2% shareholder in the S corporation under which the insurance plan is
established, earned income is your Medicare wages (box 5 of Form W-2) from that corporation.

Instructions for Worksheet P
Use Worksheet P to figure the amount you can deduct for
nonspecified premiums.
Exceptions. Use Form 7206 instead of Worksheet P to
figure your deduction for nonspecified premiums if any of
the following apply. (Only include nonspecified premiums
on line 1 or 2 of Form 7206.)

• You had more than one source of income subject to
self-employment tax.

• You file Form 2555.
• You are using amounts paid for qualified long-term
care insurance to figure the deduction.

After you complete Form 7206, follow the instructions
below.

• If line 13 is equal to or less than line 3, stop here. Do

not read the rest of these special instructions. Enter
the amount from line 14 of Form 7206 on line 17 of
Schedule 1 (Form 1040). Use Form 8962 to figure the
PTC for specified premiums.

• If line 13 is more than line 3, complete Worksheet W.

Also, complete Worksheet X if APTC was paid to your
insurer on your behalf for the months you were

48

self-employed. If APTC was not paid to your insurer on
your behalf for the months you were self-employed,
skip Worksheet X.

Nonspecified Premiums
A nonspecified premium is either of the following.

• A premium for health insurance coverage established

under your business (or the S corporation in which you
were a more-than-2% shareholder) but paid for coverage in a plan that is not a qualified health plan.

• The portion of the premium for coverage in a plan that
is a qualified health plan established under your business (or the S corporation in which you were a
more-than-2% shareholder) but that is attributable to
individuals not in your coverage family.

Calculate how much of these nonspecified premiums
are fully deductible by entering this amount on line 1 of
Worksheet P or, if required, on line 1 or 2 of Form 7206.
Complete the remainder of the appropriate worksheet.
The following are examples of nonspecified premiums.

• Premiums paid for a qualified health plan other than
during a coverage month.

Publication 974 (2025)

• Premiums paid to cover an individual other than you,
your spouse, or your dependents.

• Premiums for qualified long-term care insurance.
• Dental insurance premiums.
• Medicare premiums you voluntarily paid to obtain insurance in your name that is similar to qualifying
health insurance.

Example. In 2025, you were self-employed and were
enrolled in a qualified health plan through the Marketplace. You enrolled your dependent, 22-year-old daughter
in individual market coverage not offered through the Marketplace. This coverage has an annual premium of
$3,000. This $3,000 premium is a nonspecified premium
because it is for coverage under a plan that is not a qualified health plan. Include this $3,000 premium on Worksheet P, line 1, or, if required, on line 1 of Form 7206.

Specified Premiums
Specified premiums are the premiums for a specified
qualified health plan or plans for which you may otherwise
claim as a self-employed health insurance deduction on
line 17 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040). Generally, these are
the premiums paid for the months you were self-employed. If you were self-employed for part of a month, the
entire premium for that month is a specified premium. A
specified qualified health plan is a qualified health plan
that covers one or more members of your coverage family
for a month for which your enrollment premium(s) has
been paid by the due date prescribed under Enrollment
premiums, earlier. “Qualified health plan,” “coverage family,” and “enrollment premiums” are defined earlier under
Terms You May Need To Know.

family, use only the portion of the premiums for the specified qualified health plan that is allocable to your coverage
family. You determine the specified premiums that are allocable to your coverage family by multiplying the enrollment
premiums for the months you were self-employed and the
plan covered non-coverage family members by a fraction.
The numerator of the fraction is the premium for the applicable SLCSP for your coverage family. The denominator
of the fraction is the total of (a) the premium for the applicable SLCSP for your coverage family, and (b) the premium for the applicable SLCSP for the individuals who are
not in your coverage family.
Example. Gary was self-employed in 2025 and enrolled in a qualified health plan. APTC was paid to his insurer
on his behalf. The policy covers Gary, Gary’s wife Sue,
and Gary’s two dependent daughters. Sue is not in the
coverage family because she is eligible to enroll in her employer’s health insurance. The enrollment premium is
$15,000. The premium for the applicable SLCSP covering
Gary and his two daughters is $12,000 and the premium
for the applicable SLCSP covering Sue is $6,000. Gary
figures the amount of specified premiums by multiplying
the $15,000 enrollment premium by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the premium for his applicable
SLCSP ($12,000). The denominator of the fraction is the
total of the premiums for the applicable SLCSP of both
Gary and Sue ($18,000). The result is $10,000 ($15,000
enrollment premium x ($12,000/$18,000)) of specified
premiums, which Gary enters on Worksheet W, line 1, and
Worksheet X, line 27. The remaining $5,000 of enrollment
premium ($15,000 enrollment premium – $10,000 specified premiums) is attributable to Sue’s coverage and is a
nonspecified premium that Gary enters on Worksheet P,
line 1.

Example. You were enrolled in a qualified health plan
through the Marketplace for all of 2025 and you were
self-employed from September 15 through December 31.
Only the premiums for the last 4 months are specified premiums and only those premiums are entered on Worksheet W, line 1, and Worksheet X, line 27, if you are required to complete those worksheets. You are not allowed
a self-employed health insurance deduction for the January through August premiums because you were not
self-employed during those months. Those premiums are
neither specified premiums nor nonspecified premiums.
However, you may be allowed a PTC for your coverage for
January through August.
Plan covering individuals in another tax family. If the
plan covers at least one individual in your tax family and
one individual in another tax family, you may have to allocate policy amounts between your tax family and the other
tax family. See Line 9 in the Form 8962 instructions for instructions on how to allocate policy amounts. Do this allocation before you determine the portion of the specified
premiums allocable to your coverage family discussed
next.
Plan covering individuals not in your coverage family.
If the plan covers individuals who are not in your coverage
Publication 974 (2025)

49

Worksheet W. Figuring the Limit on the Self-Employed
Health Insurance Deduction for Specified Premiums

Keep for Your Records

Caution: If you have more than one trade or business under which a qualified health plan is established, complete lines 4
through 13 separately for each trade or business. Add the amounts on line 13 for all the trades or businesses. Then,
complete lines 14 through 17 once for all trades or businesses.
1.

Enter your specified premiums. See Specified Premiums under Instructions for Worksheet
P, earlier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter the APTC from Form 1095-A, Part III, column C, that is attributable to the premiums on
line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Enter your net profit* and any other earned income** from the business under which the qualified
health plan is established. Do not include Conservation Reserve Program payments exempt from
self-employment tax. If the business is an S corporation, skip to line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Enter the total of all net profits* from Schedule C (Form 1040), line 31; Schedule F (Form 1040),
line 34; or box 14, code A, of Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), plus any other income allocable to the
profitable businesses. Do not include Conservation Reserve Program payments exempt from
self-employment tax. See the Instructions for Schedule SE (Form 1040). Do not include any net
losses shown on these schedules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6. Divide line 4 by line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Multiply line 15 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040) by line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Subtract line 7 from line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. Enter the amount, if any, from line 16 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040) attributable to the same business
for which the qualified health plan is established . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11. Enter your Medicare wages (box 5 of Form W-2) from an S corporation in which you are a
more-than-2% shareholder and in which the qualified health plan is established . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12. Enter any amount from Form 2555, line 45, attributable to the amount entered on line 4 or line 11
above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note: If you are not filing Form 2555, enter -0-.
13. Subtract line 12 from line 10 or line 11, whichever applies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14. Enter your self-employed health insurance deduction for nonspecified premiums from Worksheet
P, line 3, or Form 7206, line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15. Subtract line 14 from line 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
17. Add lines 14 and 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18. Is line 2 blank or -0-? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Yes. Skip line 19 and Worksheet X. Use one of the methods that follow Worksheet X to figure
the PTC and self-employed health insurance deduction for specified premiums.
No. Go to line 19.
19. Subtract line 16 from line 15. Then, go to Worksheet X . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.
2.
3.
4.

5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

19.

* If you used either optional method to figure your net earnings from self-employment from any business, do not enter your net profit from the
business. Instead, enter the amount attributable to that business from Schedule SE, line 4b.
** Earned income includes net earnings and gains from the sale, transfer, or licensing of property you created. However, it does not include
capital gain income.

50

Publication 974 (2025)

Worksheet X. Figuring Household Income and the
Repayment Limitation

Keep for Your Records

Complete this worksheet only if APTC was paid to your insurer on your behalf for the months you were self-employed.
Part I: Taxpayer’s Modified AGI
1.

Combine the amounts from:
• Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, lines 2a, 9, and the excess, if any, of line 6a over
line 6b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note: See the instructions if you are filing Form 8582, 8814, or 8815.

1.

2.

Enter any amounts from Form 2555, lines 45 and 50 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.

3.
4.

Add lines 1 and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Enter the total of the amounts from:
• Schedule 1 (Form 1040), lines 11 through 16, 18, and 19a, plus any write-in adjustments
you entered on the dotted line next to Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Note: See the instructions if you made contributions to a traditional IRA.

5.

Enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

6.

Enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

7.
8.

Add lines 4, 5, and 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
Subtract line 7 from line 3. Then, go to Part II if you are claiming dependents on your tax return. If
you are not claiming any dependents on your tax return, skip Part II and go to Part III . . . . . . . . . . 8.

Part II: Dependents’ Modified AGI
Note: Use Part II to figure the combined modified AGI for the dependents you included in your tax family. Only include the modified
AGI of those dependents who are required to file a return. Do not include the modified AGI of dependents who are filing a tax return
only to claim a refund of tax withheld or estimated tax.
9.

Enter the combined AGI for your dependents from Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR,
line 11a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.
10. Enter any tax-exempt interest for your dependents from Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR,
line 2a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. Enter any amounts for your dependents from Form 2555, lines 45 and 50 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.
12. Enter for each of your dependents the excess, if any, of Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6a, over
line 6b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.
13. Add lines 9 through 12. Then, go to Part III . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
(Continued on next page)

Instructions for Worksheet X
Line 1. If you are filing Form 8582, Passive Activity Loss
Limitations, and both lines 1d and 3 of that form are losses:

• Do not complete Part II or III of that form until you are
instructed to do so later, and

• Do not include any losses from rental real estate activities on line 1.

If you are filing Form 8814, and the amount on Form
8814, line 4, is more than $1,350, you must also include
the following amounts on line 1.

• The tax-exempt interest from Form 8814, line 1b.
• The lesser of Form 8814, line 4 or line 5.
• Any nontaxable social security benefits your child re-

If you are filing Form 8815, Exclusion of Interest From
Series EE and I U.S. Savings Bonds Issued After 1989, do
not complete the form until you are instructed to do so
later. Include on line 1 the amount from Schedule B (Form
1040), line 2.
Line 4. Include your IRA deduction on line 4 only if you
(and your spouse if filing a joint return) were not covered
by a retirement plan at work or through self-employment.
Line 25. Also, enter this amount on line 28 of the Form
8962 you attach to your tax return if you are required to
complete that line and you do not complete Worksheet Y.
Do not enter an amount from Table 5 in the Form 8962 instructions.

ceived.

Publication 974 (2025)

51

Worksheet X. Figuring Household Income and the
Repayment Limitation (continued)

Keep for Your Records

Part III: Repayment Limitation
14. Household income. Add lines 8 and 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $750 ($375 if your filing status is single) . . . . . . . . .
16. Subtract line 15 from line 14. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
17a. Enter the number of qualifying individuals in your tax family
(including yourself) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17a.
17b. Enter the federal poverty line amount as determined by the family size on line 17a and federal
poverty Table 1-1, 1-2, or 1-3 for your state of residence during 2025 in the Form 8962
instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18. Divide line 16 by line 17b. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply
this number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal
point. For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for
3.997, enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
• If the result is less than 200, enter $750 ($375 if your filing status is single) on line 25. Skip
lines 19 through 24.
• If the result is 200 or more, go to line 19.
19. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $1,950 ($975 if your filing status is single) . . . . . . .
20. Subtract line 19 from line 14. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21. Divide line 20 by line 17b. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply
this number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal
point. For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for
3.997, enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
• If the result is less than 300, enter $1,950 ($975 if your filing status is single) on line 25. Skip
lines 22 through 24.
• If the result is 300 or more, go to line 22.
22. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $3,250 ($1,625 if your filing status is single) . . . . . .
23. Subtract line 22 from line 14. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24. Divide line 23 by line 17b. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply
this number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal
point. For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for
3.997, enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
• If the result is less than 400, enter $3,250 ($1,625 if your filing status is single) on line 25.
• If the result is 400 or more, enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 2, on line 25.
25. Enter the amount you were instructed to enter here by line 18, 21, or 24. See instructions . . . . . .

14.
15.
16.

17b.

18.

%

19.
20.

21.

%

22.
23.

24.

%

25.

Part IV: Maximum Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.

Add lines 6 and 25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the smaller of line 26 or line 27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the smaller of line 28 or line 29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add lines 5 and 30. Then, use one of the methods that follow to figure the PTC and the
self-employed health insurance deduction for specified premiums . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Iterative Calculation Method
Follow the steps below to figure your self-employed health
insurance deduction and PTC under the Iterative Calculation Method. You do not have to use this method. You can
use the Simplified Calculation Method (discussed later) or
any computation method that satisfies each set of rules as
long as the sum of the deduction claimed for the premiums and the PTC computed, taking the deduction into account, is less than or equal to the premiums.
Caution: Do not round to whole dollars when performing
the computations under this method. Instead, use dollars
and cents. This is necessary so you can complete Step 6.

Step 1
Figure your AGI, modified AGI, and household income using Worksheet X, line 31, as your self-employed health
52

26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.

insurance deduction. If you did not fill out Worksheet X,
use the amount from Worksheet W, line 17. Use Worksheets 1-1 and 1-2 in the Form 8962 instructions to figure
modified AGI and household income.
Caution: If you are claiming any of the following deductions or exclusions, see Special Instructions for Self-Employed Individuals Who Claim Certain Deductions/Exclusions, later, before you complete Step 1.
1. Passive activity losses from rental real estate activities
and lines 1d and 3 of Form 8582 are losses.
2. IRA deduction and you (or your spouse if filing a joint
return) were covered by a retirement plan at work or
through self-employment.
3. Exclusion of interest from series EE and I U.S. savings
bonds issued after 1989.
4. Student loan interest deduction.
Publication 974 (2025)

Step 2
Figure the total PTC on Form 8962 using the AGI, modified AGI, and household income you determined in Step
1. Enter the modified AGI and household income from
Step 1 on the Form 8962. When figuring the PTC, use all
enrollment premiums for qualified health plans in which
you or an individual in your tax family enrolled. Complete
this Form 8962 only through line 24. Do not attach this
Form 8962 to your tax return.
Cannot take the PTC. If you are not eligible to take the
PTC, stop here. Do not use this method. Instead, figure
your self-employed health insurance deduction using the
Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet in
the Instructions for Form 1040 or the Instructions for Form
1040-NR; or, if required, Form 7206. If you are following
the instructions under Special Instructions for Self-Employed Individuals Who Claim Certain Deductions/Exclusions, later, make this determination when you complete
the final iteration of Step 2. Refigure the deductions/exclusions if you are not eligible for the PTC.

Step 3
Figure your self-employed health insurance deduction for
specified premiums by completing the following worksheet.
Caution: If you have more than one trade or business under which you established a qualified health plan, see
More than one trade or business below before you complete the Step 3 Worksheet.

Step 3 Worksheet
Enter amounts in dollars and cents. Do not round to whole
dollars.

1. Enter the amount from Worksheet
W, line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Caution: If the amounts on lines 12 through
23, column (e), of your Step 2 Form 8962 are
not the same for each month and you had
specified premiums for less than 12 months,
skip lines 2 through 5 below and enter on
line 6 the total of those column (e) amounts
for the months you paid specified premiums.
2. Enter the total PTC (Form 8962, line 24) you
figured in Step 2, earlier . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Enter the number of months in 2025 for
which specified premiums were paid . . . . . 3.
Note: Self-employment for part of a month
counts as a full month of self-employment.
4. Enter the number of months someone in your
coverage family was enrolled in the qualified
health plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Divide line 3 by line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

.

.

6. Multiply line 5 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

.

7. Subtract line 6 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
8. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 30.
If you did not complete Worksheet X, enter
the amount from Worksheet W, line 16 . . . . 8.
9. Enter the smaller of line 7 or line 8. Then, go
to Step 4 next . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.

.

.

.

More than one trade or business. If you have more
than one trade or business under which you established a
qualified health plan, you must complete lines 1 through 7
separately for each trade or business. Use the following
instructions to complete the Step 3 Worksheet.
Line 1. Enter the amounts for the separate trade or
business.
If the Caution under line 1 applies to you, skip lines 2
through 5. Enter on line 6 the total of the column (e)
amounts for the months you paid specified premiums that
are allocable to the specified premiums you entered on
line 1 for the separate trade or business. You can allocate
the column (e) amounts using any reasonable method.
One reasonable method is based on enrollment premiums
for each plan. Under this method, multiply the total of the
column (e) amounts for the months you paid specified premiums by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the
amount of specified premiums you entered on line 1 for
the separate trade or business. The denominator of the
fraction is the total of the column (a) amounts for the
months you paid specified premiums.
Line 2. Enter the Step 2 PTC that is allocable to the
specified premiums you entered on line 1 for the separate
trade or business. You can allocate the Step 2 PTC using
any reasonable method. One reasonable method is based
on enrollment premiums for each plan. Under this method,
multiply the Step 2 PTC by a fraction. The numerator of
the fraction is the amount of specified premiums you entered on line 1 for the separate trade or business. The denominator of the fraction is the amount on line 11, column
(a), or the total of lines 12 through 23, column (a), of the
Step 2 Form 8962.
Lines 3 through 6. Complete these lines for the plan
established under the separate trade or business.

Publication 974 (2025)

53

Line 7. After you complete this line for each trade or
business, add the amounts on line 7 for all the trades or
businesses. Use the total of the line 7 amounts to complete lines 8 and 9.
Lines 8 and 9. Complete these lines once for all
trades or businesses.

Step 4
Refigure the total PTC on another Form 8962. Complete
this Form 8962 through line 29. When refiguring the total
PTC, use all enrollment premiums for qualified health
plans in which you or any individual in your tax family enrolled. Determine AGI, modified AGI, and household income using the total of the Step 3 Worksheet, line 9, and
Worksheet W, line 14, as your self-employed health insurance deduction. Use Worksheets 1-1 and 1-2 in the Form
8962 instructions to figure modified AGI and household income.

Step 5
Refigure your self-employed health insurance deduction
for specified premiums by completing the Step 5 Worksheet.
Caution: If you have more than one trade or business under which you established a qualified health plan, see
More than one trade or business, later, before you complete the Step 5 Worksheet.

Step 5 Worksheet
Enter amounts in dollars and cents. Do not round to whole
dollars.
1. Enter the amount from line 1 of the Step
3 Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Caution: If you skipped lines 2 through 5 of
the Step 3 Worksheet, skip lines 2 and 3
below and enter on line 4 the total of the
column (e) amounts from your Step 4 Form
8962 for the months you paid specified
premiums.
2. Enter the total PTC (Form 8962, line 24) you
figured in Step 4, earlier . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Enter the amount from line 5 of the Step
3 Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.

.

.

4.

.

5. Subtract line 4 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 30.
If you did not complete Worksheet X, enter
the amount from Worksheet W, line 16 . . . . 6.
7. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 6. Then, go
to Step 6 next . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

.

4. Multiply line 3 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

.

.

More than one trade or business. If you have more
than one trade or business under which you established a
qualified health plan, you must complete lines 1 through 5
separately for each trade or business. Use the following
instructions to complete the Step 5 Worksheet.

54

Line 1. Enter the amount from the Step 3 Worksheet
for the same separate trade or business for which you are
completing the Step 5 Worksheet.
If the Caution under line 1 applies to you, skip lines 2
and 3. Enter on line 4 the total of the column (e) amounts
for the months you paid specified premiums that are allocable to the specified premiums you entered on line 1 for
the separate trade or business. Allocate the column (e)
amounts using the same method you used on the Step 3
Worksheet.
Line 2. Enter the Step 4 PTC that is allocable to the
premiums you entered on line 1 for the separate trade or
business. Use the same allocation method you used on
the Step 3 Worksheet.
Line 3. Enter the amount from the Step 3 Worksheet
for the same separate trade or business for which you are
completing the Step 5 Worksheet.
Line 5. After you complete this line for each trade or
business, add the amounts on line 5 for all the trades or
businesses. Use the total of the line 5 amounts to complete lines 6 and 7.
Lines 6 and 7. Complete these lines once for all
trades or businesses.

Step 6
Answer the following three questions.
1. Is the change in the self-employed health insurance
deduction from Step 3 to Step 5 less than $1.00?
Yes
No
2. Is the change in the total PTC from Step 2 to Step 4
less than $1.00?
Yes
No
3. Did you answer “Yes” to both questions 1 and 2?
Yes. You can claim a PTC for the amount you figured in Step 4. Attach the Form 8962 you used in Step
4 to your tax return. You can claim a self-employed
health insurance deduction for the specified premiums equal to the amount on line 7 of the Step 5 Worksheet.
Note: Your self-employed health insurance deduction
is the total of the Step 5 Worksheet, line 7, and Worksheet W, line 14. Enter this total on line 17 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040).
No. Repeat Step 4 and Step 5 (using amounts determined in the immediately preceding step) until
changes in both the self-employed health insurance
deduction and the total PTC between steps are less
than $1.00.
Caution: If you are unable to complete Step 6 because
changes between steps are always $1.00 or more, do not
use the Iterative Calculation Method. Instead, use the
Simplified Calculation Method or any computation method
that satisfies the rules for the self-employed health insurance deduction and PTC as long as the sum of the
Publication 974 (2025)

deduction claimed for the premiums and the PTC computed, taking the deduction into account, is less than or
equal to the premiums.

Simplified Calculation Method
Follow the steps below to figure your self-employed health
insurance deduction and PTC under the Simplified Calculation Method. You do not have to use this method. You
can use the Iterative Calculation Method (discussed earlier) if you can complete Step 6 of that method, or you can
use any computation method that satisfies each set of
rules as long as the sum of the deduction claimed for the
premiums and the PTC computed, taking the deduction
into account, is less than or equal to the premiums.

Step 1

the final iteration of Step 2. Refigure the deductions/exclusions if you are not eligible for the PTC.

Step 3
Figure your self-employed health insurance deduction by
completing the following worksheet.
Caution: If you have more than one trade or business under which you established a qualified health plan, see
More than one trade or business below before you complete the Step 3 Worksheet.

Step 3 Worksheet

1. Enter the amount from Worksheet
W, line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Caution: If the amounts on lines 12 through
23, column (e), of your Step 2 Form 8962
are not the same for each month and you
had specified premiums for less than 12
months, skip lines 2 through 5 below and
enter on line 6 the total of those column (e)
amounts for the months you paid specified
premiums.

Figure your AGI, modified AGI, and household income using Worksheet X, line 31, as your self-employed health insurance deduction. If you did not fill out Worksheet X, use
the amount from Worksheet W, line 17. Use Worksheets
1-1 and 1-2 in the Form 8962 instructions to figure modified AGI and household income.

2. Enter the total PTC (Form 8962, line 24) you
figured in Step 2, earlier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.

Caution: If you are claiming any of the following deductions or exclusions, see Special Instructions for Self-Employed Individuals Who Claim Certain Deductions/Exclusions, later, before you complete Step 1.

Note: Self-employment for part of a month
counts as a full month of self-employment.

1. Passive activity losses from rental real estate activities
and lines 1d and 3 of Form 8582 are losses.

3. Enter the number of months in 2025 for
which specified premiums were
paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.

4. Enter the number of months someone in
your coverage family was enrolled in the
qualified health plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

2. IRA deduction and you (or your spouse if filing a joint
return) were covered by a retirement plan at work or
through self-employment.

5. Divide line 3 by line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

3. Exclusion of interest from series EE and I U.S. savings
bonds issued after 1989.

8. Enter the amount from Worksheet X,
line 30. If you did not complete Worksheet
X, enter the amount from Worksheet
W, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.

4. Student loan interest deduction.

6. Multiply line 5 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Subtract line 6 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

9. Enter the smaller of line 7 or line 8

Step 2
Figure the total PTC on Form 8962 using the AGI, modified AGI, and household income you determined in Step
1. Enter the modified AGI and household income from
Step 1 on the Form 8962. When figuring the PTC, use all
enrollment premiums for qualified health plans in which
you or any individual in your tax family enrolled. Complete
this Form 8962 only through line 24. Do not attach this
Form 8962 to your tax return.
Cannot take the PTC. If you are not eligible to take the
PTC, stop here. Do not use this method. Instead, figure
your self-employed health insurance deduction using the
Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction Worksheet in
the Instructions for Form 1040 or the Instructions for Form
1040-NR; or, if required, Form 7206. If you are following
the instructions under Special Instructions for Self-Employed Individuals Who Claim Certain Deductions/Exclusions, later, make this determination when you complete
Publication 974 (2025)

. . . . . . 9.

10. Enter the amount from Worksheet
W, line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
11. Add lines 9 and 10. Use this amount as your
self-employed health insurance deduction
in Step 4 next. Also, enter this amount on
line 17 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040) . . . . . . 11.

More than one trade or business. If you have more
than one trade or business under which you established a
qualified health plan, you must complete lines 1 through 7
separately for each trade or business. Use the following
instructions to complete the Step 3 Worksheet.
Line 1. Enter the amounts for the separate trade or
business.
If the Caution under line 1 applies to you, skip lines 2
through 5. Enter on line 6 the total of the column (e)
amounts for the months you paid specified premiums that
are allocable to the specified premiums you entered on
line 1 for the separate trade or business. You can allocate
the column (e) amounts using any reasonable method.
55

One reasonable method is based on enrollment premiums
for each plan. Under this method, multiply the total of the
column (e) amounts for the months you paid specified premiums by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the
amount of specified premiums you entered on line 1 for
the separate trade or business. The denominator of the
fraction is the total of the column (a) amounts for the
months you paid specified premiums.
Line 2. Enter the Step 2 PTC that is allocable to the
specified premiums you entered on line 1 for the separate
trade or business. You can allocate the Step 2 PTC using
any reasonable method. One reasonable method is based
on enrollment premiums for each plan. Under this method,
multiply the Step 2 PTC by a fraction. The numerator of
the fraction is the amount of specified premiums you entered on line 1 for the separate trade or business. The denominator of the fraction is the amount on line 11, column
(a), or the total of lines 12 through 23, column (a), of the
Step 2 Form 8962.
Lines 3 through 6. Complete these lines for the plan
established under the separate trade or business.
Line 7. After you complete this line for each trade or
business, add the amounts on line 7 for all the trades or
businesses. Use the total of the line 7 amounts to complete lines 8 through 11.
Lines 8 through 11. Complete these lines once for all
trades or businesses.

Step 4
Refigure the final PTC on another Form 8962. Complete
this Form 8962 through line 29. Attach this Form 8962 to
your tax return. When refiguring the PTC, use all enrollment premiums for qualified health plans in which you or
any individual in your tax family enrolled. Determine AGI,
modified AGI, and household income using the amount
from line 11 of the Step 3 Worksheet as your self-employed health insurance deduction. Use Worksheets 1-1
and 1-2 in the Form 8962 instructions to figure modified
AGI and household income.

Special Instructions for
Self-Employed Individuals Who Claim
Certain Deductions/Exclusions
The instructions in this section apply to you if you claim
any of the following deductions or exclusions.
1. Passive activity losses from rental real estate activities
and lines 1d and 3 of Form 8582 are losses.
2. IRA deduction and you (or your spouse if filing a joint
return) were covered by a retirement plan at work or
through self-employment.
3. Exclusion of interest from series EE and I U.S. savings
bonds issued after 1989.
4. Student loan interest deduction.

56

Read the following instructions if you are claiming one
or more of the deductions/exclusions listed above. Read
these instructions before you complete the Iterative Calculation Method or Simplified Calculation Method.
1. The first time you complete the Iterative Calculation
Method or Simplified Calculation Method, you do so
without including any of the deductions/exclusions
listed above in AGI, modified AGI, or household income. If you use the Simplified Calculation Method,
complete it only through Step 3. Enter “400” on the interim Form 8962, line 5, if you answer “Yes” on Worksheet 2, line 4, in the Form 8962 instructions.
2. After you complete (1), figure the deduction/exclusion
using the appropriate form or worksheet in your tax return instructions. When figuring modified AGI on the
form or worksheet (or AGI on Form 8903), use as your
self-employed health insurance deduction the amount
from Step 6 of the Iterative Calculation Method or
Step 3 of the Simplified Calculation Method.
If you are claiming more than one deduction/exclusion
on the list, you must figure the deductions/exclusions
in the order shown in the list. For example, if you are
claiming the student loan interest deduction and the
exclusion of interest from series EE and I U.S. savings
bonds, you must figure the exclusion of interest from
series EE and I U.S. savings bonds first and complete
(3) and (4) or (5) using that exclusion. Then, you figure the student loan interest deduction, as explained
in (5) or at the end of Worksheets Y and Z.
3. Enter the deduction/exclusion you figured in (2) on
your tax return.
4. If you completed Worksheet X, complete Worksheet Y
and follow the instructions under line 22 of that worksheet. Skip (5).
5. If you did not complete Worksheet X, do the following.
a. Repeat the Iterative Calculation Method or Simplified Calculation Method. Use the deduction/exclusion from (2) in any step that requires you to figure
AGI, modified AGI, and household income.
b. If the amount from (2) is the only deduction/exclusion on the list you are claiming, complete either
method through the last step and follow the step
instructions for claiming the PTC and self-employed health insurance deduction on your return.
Skip (5c).
c. If the amount from (2) is not the only deduction/
exclusion on the list you are claiming, repeat the
Iterative Calculation Method through Step 6 or the
Simplified Calculation Method through Step 3. Enter “400” on the interim Form 8962, line 5, if you
answered “Yes” on Worksheet 2, line 4, in the
Form 8962 instructions. Then, figure the additional
deduction/exclusion using the appropriate form or
worksheet in your tax return instructions. When
figuring modified AGI on the form or worksheet (or
AGI on Form 8903), use as your self-employed
Publication 974 (2025)

health insurance deduction the amount from Step
6 of the Iterative Calculation Method or Step 3 of
the Simplified Calculation Method. Then, repeat

Publication 974 (2025)

(3) and (5) for each additional deduction/exclusion. Follow (5b) for your final deduction/exclusion.

57

Worksheet Y. Refiguring Household Income and the
Repayment Limitation When Claiming Certain Deductions
or Exclusions
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Keep for Your Records

Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the deduction or exclusion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Revised household income. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $750 ($375 if your filing status is single) . . . . . . . . . .
Subtract line 4 from line 3. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 17b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Divide line 5 by line 6. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply this
number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal point.
For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for 3.997,
enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
• If the result is less than 200, enter $750 ($375 if your filing status is single) on line 14. Skip
lines 8 through 13.
• If the result is 200 or more, go to line 8.
8. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $1,950 ($975 if your filing status is single) . . . . . . . .
9. Subtract line 8 from line 3. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10. Divide line 9 by line 6. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply this
number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal point.
For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for 3.997,
enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
• If the result is less than 300, enter $1,950 ($975 if your filing status is single) on line 14. Skip
lines 11 through 13.
• If the result is 300 or more, go to line 11.
11. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $3,250 ($1,625 if your filing status is single) . . . . . .
12. Subtract line 11 from line 3. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
13. Divide line 12 by line 6. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply this
number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal point.
For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for 3.997,
enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
• If the result is less than 400, enter $3,250 ($1,625 if your filing status is single) on line 14.
• If the result is 400 or more, enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 2, on line 14.
14. Enter the amount you were instructed to enter here by line 7, 10, or 13. Also, enter this amount on
line 28 of the Form 8962 you attach to your tax return if you are required to complete that line and
you do not complete Worksheet Z. Do not enter an amount from Table 5 in the Form 8962
instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16. Add lines 14 and 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
17. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18. Enter the smaller of line 16 or line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
19. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
20. Enter the smaller of line 18 or line 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
21. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22. Add lines 20 and 21. Then, see Next below for further instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

7.

%

8.
9.

10.

%

11.
12.

13.

%

14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.

Next. Repeat the Iterative Calculation Method or Simplified Calculation Method, whichever applies. In Step 1 of either method, use
the amount on line 22 above as your self-employed health insurance deduction. Also, use the amount on line 2 above in any step
that requires you to figure AGI, modified AGI, and household income. If the amount on line 2 above is the only deduction/exclusion
on the list that you are claiming, complete either method through the last step. If you are claiming another deduction/exclusion on
the list, do the following.
• When you repeat either method as explained above, complete the Iterative Calculation Method through Step 6 or complete the
Simplified Calculation Method through Step 3. Enter “400” on the interim Form 8962, line 5, if you answer “Yes” on Worksheet 2,
line 3, in the Form 8962 instructions.
• Figure the other deduction/exclusion using the appropriate form or the worksheet provided in your tax return instructions. Use
the self-employed health insurance deduction you figured in either Step 6 of the Iterative Calculation Method or Step 3 of the
Simplified Calculation Method to figure modified AGI for the other deduction/exclusion.
• Then, complete Worksheet Z for the other deduction/exclusion.

58

Publication 974 (2025)

Worksheet Z. Refiguring Household Income and the
Repayment Limitation When Claiming Certain Deductions
or Exclusions

Keep for Your Records

Before you begin:
• Complete Worksheet Y before you complete Worksheet Z.
1. Enter the amount from Worksheet Y, line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
2. Enter the deduction or exclusion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
3. Revised household income. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
4. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $750 ($375 if your filing status is single) . . . . . . . . . . 4.
5. Subtract line 4 from line 3. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
6. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 17b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
7. Divide line 5 by line 6. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply this
number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal point.
For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for 3.997,
enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
• If the result is less than 200, enter $750 ($375 if your filing status is single) on line 14. Skip
lines 8 through 13.
• If the result is 200 or more, go to line 8.
8. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $1,950 ($975 if your filing status is single) . . . . . . . . 8.
9. Subtract line 8 from line 3. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.
10. Divide line 9 by line 6. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply this
number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal point.
For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for 3.997,
enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.
• If the result is less than 300, enter $1,950 ($975 if your filing status is single) on line 14. Skip
lines 11 through 13.
• If the result is 300 or more, go to line 11.
11. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $3,250 ($1,625 if your filing status is single) . . . . . . . 11.
12. Subtract line 11 from line 3. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.
13. Divide line 12 by line 6. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply this
number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal point.
For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for 3.997,
enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.
• If the result is less than 400, enter $3,250 ($1,625 if your filing status is single) on line 14.
• If the result is 400 or more, enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 2, on line 14.
14. Enter the amount you were instructed to enter here by line 7, 10, or 13. Also, enter this amount on
line 28 of the Form 8962 you attach to your tax return if you are required to complete that line. Do
not enter an amount from Table 5 in the Form 8962 instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.
15. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.
16. Add lines 14 and 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.
17. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17.
18. Enter the smaller of line 16 or line 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.
19. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.
20. Enter the smaller of line 18 or line 19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.
21. Enter the amount from Worksheet X, line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21.
22. Add lines 20 and 21. Then, see Next below for further instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22.

%

%

%

Next. Repeat the Iterative Calculation Method or Simplified Calculation Method, whichever applies. In Step 1 of either method, use the amount on
line 22 above as your self-employed health insurance deduction. Also, use the amounts on line 2 of Worksheets Y and Z in any step that requires
you to figure AGI, modified AGI, and household income. If you are not claiming any more deductions/exclusions on the list, complete either method
through the last step and follow the step instructions for claiming the PTC and self-employed health insurance deduction on your tax return. If you
are claiming another deduction/exclusion on the list, do the following.
• When you repeat either method as explained above, complete the Iterative Calculation Method through Step 6 or complete the Simplified
Calculation Method through Step 3. Enter “400” on the interim Form 8962, line 5, if you answer “Yes” on Worksheet 2, line 3, in the Form 8962
instructions.
• Figure the other deduction/exclusion using the appropriate form or the worksheet provided in your tax return instructions. Use the
self-employed health insurance deduction you figured in either Step 6 of the Iterative Calculation Method or Step 3 of the Simplified
Calculation Method to figure modified AGI for the other deduction/exclusion.
• Then, complete another Worksheet Z for the other deduction/exclusion.

Publication 974 (2025)

59

Illustrated Example of the Simplified
Calculation Method
The following example illustrates the Simplified Calculation Method.
In 2025, Carla Birch, her husband Jim, and their two
dependent children enrolled in the applicable SLCSP
through the Marketplace. The annual premium was
$13,000, and $4,200 in APTC was paid for Carla, her husband, and two dependent children. All of the premiums
are specified premiums. Carla operated a business as a
sole proprietorship during the entire year. Carla and Jim
are filing a joint Form 1040 (not illustrated). The income
and deductions on their Form 1040 and Schedule 1 (Form
1040), excluding Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 17, consist
of the following.
Jim’s salary (Form 1040, line 1) . . . . . . . . . . .
Taxable interest (Form 1040, line 2b) . . . . . . .
Carla’s net profit from her business on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 3 . . . . . . . . . . .
Total income (Form 1040, line 9) . . . . . . . . . .
Deductible part of Carla’s self-employment tax
(Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15) . . . . . . . . .
Carla’s qualified retirement plan deduction
(Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16) . . . . . . . . .

60

$83,675
419
30,000
114,094

Carla’s Worksheet W
Carla begins by completing Worksheet W to determine the
limit on the self-employed health insurance deduction for
specified premiums.

Carla’s Worksheet X
Because Carla had APTC during the months of self-employment, she completes Worksheet X, Parts I and III. She
skips Part II because neither one of her children is required to file a federal income tax return for 2025.
Line 1. Carla enters $114,094, which is the total income
shown on line 9 of her Form 1040. Total income is the sum
of Jim’s salary, taxable interest, and Carla’s net profit.
Line 4. Carla enters $4,619. This is the total of the deductible part of her self-employment tax and her qualified
retirement plan deduction.
Line 17b. Carla enters $31,200. This is the federal poverty line shown in Table 1-1 in the Form 8962 instructions
for a family size of four.

2,119
2,500

Publication 974 (2025)

Carla’s Worksheet W. Figuring the Limit on the Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction
for Specified Premiums
Caution: If you have more than one trade or business under which a qualified health plan is established, complete
lines 4 through 13 separately for each trade or business. Add the amounts on line 13 for all the trades or businesses.
Then, complete lines 14 through 17 once for all trades or businesses.
1.

Enter your specified premiums. See Specified Premiums under Instructions for Worksheet
P, earlier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter the APTC from Form 1095-A, Part III, column C, that is attributable to the premiums on
line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Enter your net profit* and any other earned income** from the business under which the qualified
health plan is established. Do not include Conservation Reserve Program payments exempt from
self-employment tax. If the business is an S corporation, skip to line 11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Enter the total of all net profits* from Schedule C (Form 1040), line 31; Schedule F (Form 1040),
line 34; or box 14, code A, of Schedule K-1 (Form 1065), plus any other income allocable to the
profitable businesses. Do not include Conservation Reserve Program payments exempt from
self-employment tax. See the Instructions for Schedule SE (Form 1040). Do not include any net
losses shown on these schedules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6. Divide line 4 by line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Multiply line 15 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040) by line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Subtract line 7 from line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. Enter the amount, if any, from line 16 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040) attributable to the same business
for which the qualified health plan is established . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11. Enter your Medicare wages (box 5 of Form W-2) from an S corporation in which you are a
more-than-2% shareholder and in which the qualified health plan is established . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
12. Enter any amount from Form 2555, line 45, attributable to the amount entered on line 4 or line 11
above . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note: If you are not filing Form 2555, enter -0-.
13. Subtract line 12 from line 10 or line 11, whichever applies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
14. Enter your self-employed health insurance deduction for nonspecified premiums from Worksheet
P, line 3, or Form 7206, line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15. Subtract line 14 from line 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
17. Add lines 14 and 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18. Is line 2 blank or -0-? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Yes. Skip line 19 and Worksheet X. Use one of the methods that follow Worksheet X to figure
the PTC and self-employed health insurance deduction for specified premiums.
x No. Go to line 19.
19. Subtract line 16 from line 15. Then, go to Worksheet X . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

13,000

2.
3.

4,200
8,800

4.

30,000

5.
6.
7.
8.

30,000
1.0
2,119
27,881

9.
10.

2,500
25,381

11.
12.

-0-

13.

25,381

14.
15.
16.
17.
18.

25,381
8,800
8,800

19.

16,581

* If you used either optional method to figure your net earnings from self-employment from any business, do not enter your net profit from the
business. Instead, enter the amount attributable to that business from Schedule SE, line 4b.
** Earned income includes net earnings and gains from the sale, transfer, or licensing of property you created. However, it does not include
capital gain income.

The Simplified Calculation Method for Carla
Step 1. Carla figures her AGI, modified AGI, and household income using $12,050 as the self-employed health
insurance deduction. (She does not enter $12,050 on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 17.) Her AGI is $97,425, figured as follows.
Total income from Form 1040, line 9 . . . . . . . .
Minus: deductible part of self-employment
tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minus: qualified retirement plan deduction . . .
Minus: self-employed health insurance
deduction from Worksheet X, line 31 . . . . . . .
Equals: AGI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$114,094
(2,119)
(2,500)
(12,050)
97,425

AGI and household income. Her modified AGI and household income are each $97,425, the same as her AGI figured in this Step 1.
Step 2. Carla figures the total PTC on Form 8962 (not illustrated) using the modified AGI and household income
figured in Step 1. She completes Form 8962 only through
line 24. She uses the total PTC shown on line 24 ($6,862)
to figure the self-employed health insurance deduction in
Step 3, later. She does not attach the Form 8962 to her
tax return.
Step 3. Carla completes the following worksheet to figure
the self-employed health insurance deduction she will enter on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 17.

Carla uses this AGI amount on Worksheet 1-1 (not illustrated) in the Form 8962 instructions to figure her modified
Publication 974 (2025)

61

Carla’s Worksheet X. Figuring Household Income and the Repayment Limitation
Complete this worksheet only if APTC was paid to your insurer on your behalf for the months you were self-employed.
Part I: Taxpayer’s Modified AGI
1.

2.
3.
4.

5.
6.
7.
8.

Combine the amounts from:
• Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, lines 2a and 9, and the excess, if any, of line 6a over
line 6b . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.
Note: See the instructions if you are filing Form 8582, 8814, or 8815.
Enter any amounts from Form 2555, lines 45 and 50 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.
Add lines 1 and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.
Enter the total of the amounts from:
• Schedule 1 (Form 1040), lines 11 through 16, 18, and 19a, plus any write-in adjustments you
entered on the dotted line next to Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.
Note: See the instructions if you made contributions to a traditional IRA.
Enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.
Enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.
Add lines 4, 5, and 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.
Subtract line 7 from line 3. Then, go to Part II if you are claiming dependents on your tax return. If
you are not claiming any dependents on your tax return, skip Part II and go to Part III . . . . . . . . . . 8.

114,094

114,094
4,619

8,800
13,419
100,675

Part II: Dependents’ Modified AGI
Note: Lines 9–13 of this part are omitted because Carla’s dependent children are not required to file federal income tax returns.
Part III: Repayment Limitation
14. Household income. Add lines 8 and 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.
15. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $750 ($375 if your filing status is single) . . . . . . . . . 15.
16. Subtract line 15 from line 14. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16.
17a. Enter the number of qualifying individuals in your tax family
4
(including yourself) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17a.
17b. Enter the federal poverty line amount as determined by the family size on line 17a and federal
poverty Table 1-1, 1-2, or 1-3 for your state of residence during 2025 in the Form 8962
instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17b.
18. Divide line 16 by line 17b. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply
this number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal
point. For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for
3.997, enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.
• If the result is less than 200, enter $750 ($375 if your filing status is single) on line 25. Skip
lines 19 through 24.
• If the result is 200 or more, go to line 19.
19. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $1,950 ($975 if your filing status is single) . . . . . . . 19.
20. Subtract line 19 from line 14. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.
21. Divide line 20 by line 17b. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply
this number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal
point. For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for
3.997, enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21.
• If the result is less than 300, enter $1,950 ($975 if your filing status is single) on line 25. Skip
lines 22 through 24.
• If the result is 300 or more, go to line 22.
22. Enter the smaller of Worksheet W, line 19, or $3,250 ($1,625 if your filing status is single) . . . . . . 22.
23. Subtract line 22 from line 14. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23.
24. Divide line 23 by line 17b. If the result is not a whole percentage, do not round; instead, multiply
this number by 100 (to express it as a percentage) and then drop any numbers after the decimal
point. For example, for 0.9984, enter the result as 99; for 1.8565, enter the result as 185; and for
3.997, enter the result as 399 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24.
• If the result is less than 400, enter $3,250 ($1,625 if your filing status is single) on line 25.
• If the result is 400 or more, enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 2, on line 25.
25. Enter the amount you were instructed to enter here by line 18, 21, or 24. See instructions . . . . . . 25.

100,675
750
99,925

31,200

320%

1,950
98,725

316%

3,250
97,425

312%
3,250

Part IV: Maximum Self-Employed Health Insurance Deduction
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.

62

Add lines 6 and 25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the smaller of line 26 or line 27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the amount from Worksheet W, line 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Enter the smaller of line 28 or line 29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Add lines 5 and 30. Then, use one of the methods that follow to figure the PTC and the
self-employed health insurance deduction for specified premiums . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

26.
27.
28.
29.
30.

12,050
13,000
12,050
25,381
12,050

31.

12,050

Publication 974 (2025)

Carla’s Step 3 Worksheet
1. Enter the amount from Worksheet
W, line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.

13,000

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.

Caution: If the amounts on lines 12 through
23, column (e), of your Step 2 Form 8962
are not the same for each month and you
had specified premiums for less than 12
months, skip lines 2 through 5 below and
enter on line 6 the total of those column (e)
amounts for the months you paid specified
premiums.
2. Enter the total PTC (Form 8962, line 24) you
figured in Step 2, earlier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.

6,862

3. Enter the number of months in 2025 for
which specified premiums were
paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.

12

Note: Self-employment for part of a month
counts as a full month of self-employment.

Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.

4. Enter the number of months someone in
your coverage family was enrolled in the
qualified health plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.

12

5. Divide line 3 by line 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.

1.0

6. Multiply line 5 by line 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.

6,862

7. Subtract line 6 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.

6,138

8. Enter the amount from Worksheet X,
line 30. If you did not complete Worksheet
X, enter the amount from Worksheet W,
line 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.

12,050

9. Enter the smaller of line 7 or line 8

. . . . . . 9.

6,138

10. Enter the amount from Worksheet
W, line 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.

Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

-0-

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

11. Add lines 9 and 10. Use this amount as your
self-employed health insurance deduction
in Step 4 next. Also, enter this amount on
line 17 of Schedule 1 (Form 1040) . . . . . . 11.

6,138

Step 4. Carla refigures the final PTC on another Form
8962 (not illustrated). Carla figures her AGI, modified AGI,
and household income using the amount from line 11 of
the Step 3 Worksheet as her self-employed health insurance deduction. Her AGI is $103,337, figured as follows.

Carla’s Step 4 Worksheet

Total income from Form 1040, line 9 . . . . . . . .
Minus: deductible part of self-employment
tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minus: qualified retirement plan
deduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Minus: self-employed health insurance
deduction from line 11 of the Step 3
Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Equals: AGI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$114,094
(2,119)
(2,500)
(6,138)
103,337

Carla uses this AGI amount on Worksheet 1-1 (not illustrated) in the Form 8962 instructions to refigure her modified AGI and household income. Her modified AGI and
household income are each $103,337, the same as her
AGI figured earlier.
Carla completes Form 8962 (not illustrated) through
line 26. She enters the amount from line 26 ($1,794) on
Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 9, and attaches Form 8962.
Publication 974 (2025)

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.
63

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the
CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

!

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
64

and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.
Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English
and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS offers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language interpretation. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Spanish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian,
and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Publication 974 (2025)

Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You’ll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax pro-

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

most recent tax return, and transcripts.

fessionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.

Publication 974 (2025)

vice to check your refund status.

The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information
on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s

free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

65

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the address listed on the notice or instructions.

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at
a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our sysCAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able to use
the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information,
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
66

most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and
appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the
Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and
click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS. Our services are free.

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn’t working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
Publication 974 (2025)

• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to

Publication 974 (2025)

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

67

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A

Abandonment 7
Advance payment of the premium
tax credit (APTC) 3
Allocation of policy amounts 28
Divorced or legally separated 28
Married but not filing a joint
return 33
Two or more taxpayers 37
Alternative calculation for year of
marriage 38, 44
Alternative family size 38
Applicable taxpayer 6
Assistance (See Tax help)

C

Coverage family 4

D

Domestic abuse 7

E

Employer-sponsored plans 10
Expatriate health plans 8

G

Government-sponsored
programs 9

68

H

Q

Household income 4

Qualified health plan 6

I

S

Individual market plans 8
Individuals lawfully present 20
Individuals not lawfully present 19
Individuals who are incarcerated 7
Iterative Calculation Method 52

M

Married filing separately 8
Married taxpayers 7
Minimum essential coverage 8
Modified AGI 4
Monthly credit amount 4

N

Second Lowest Cost Silver Plan
(SLCSP) 27
Self-employed health insurance
deduction 47
Simplified calculation method 55,
58
SLCSP:
Premium tools 27
Specified premiums 49
Spousal abandonment 7

T

Tax family 4
Tax help 63

Nonspecified premiums 48

O

Other coverage 19

P

Premium tax credit (PTC) 3
Publications (See Tax help)

Publication 974 (2025)

