Reminders
Publication 936

Home
Mortgage
Interest
Deduction
For use in preparing

Mortgage insurance premiums. The itemized deduction for mortgage insurance premiums has expired. You
can no longer claim the deduction.
Home equity loan interest. No matter when the indebtedness was incurred, you can no longer deduct the interest from a loan secured by your home to the extent the
loan proceeds weren't used to buy, build, or substantially
improve your home.
Home mortgage interest. You can deduct home mortgage interest on the first $750,000 ($375,000 if married filing separately) of indebtedness. However, higher limitations ($1 million ($500,000 if married filing separately))
apply if you are deducting mortgage interest from indebtedness incurred before December 16, 2017.
Future developments. For the latest information about
developments related to Pub. 936, such as legislation
enacted after it was published, go to IRS.gov/Pub936.

2025 Returns

Photographs of missing children. The IRS is a proud
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children selected by the Center may appear in this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. You can help bring
these children home by looking at the photographs and
calling 1-800-THE-LOST (1-800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
This publication discusses the rules for deducting home
mortgage interest.
Part I contains general information on home mortgage
interest, including points. It also explains how to report deductible interest on your tax return.
Part II explains how your deduction for home mortgage
interest may be limited. It contains Table 1, which is a
worksheet you can use to figure the limit on your deduction.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome your comments about this publication and suggestions for future
editions.
You can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue
Service, Tax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each comment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Oct 28, 2025

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Getting answers to your tax questions. If you have
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How
To Get Tax Help section at the end of this publication, go
to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/

Publication 936 (2025) Catalog Number 10426G
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior-year
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications.
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible.
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can
get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
504 Divorced or Separated Individuals
523 Selling Your Home
527 Residential Rental Property
530 Tax Information for Homeowners
504

523

527

530

See How To Get Tax Help at the end of this publication for
information about getting these publications.

Part I. Home
Mortgage Interest
This part explains what you can deduct as home mortgage interest. It includes discussions on points and how to
report deductible interest on your tax return.
Generally, home mortgage interest is any interest you
pay on a loan secured by your home (main home or a second home). The loan may be a mortgage to buy your
home, or a second mortgage.
You can’t deduct home mortgage interest unless the
following conditions are met.

• You file Form 1040 or 1040-SR and itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).

• The mortgage is a secured debt on a qualified home
in which you have an ownership interest. Secured
Debt and Qualified Home are explained later.

Both you and the lender must intend that the loan be repaid.
Note: Interest on home equity loans and lines of credit
are deductible only if the borrowed funds are used to buy,

2

build, or substantially improve the taxpayer’s home that
secures the loan. The loan must be secured by the taxpayer’s main home or second home (qualified residence),
and meet other requirements.
Fully deductible interest. In most cases, you can deduct all of your home mortgage interest. How much you
can deduct depends on the date of the mortgage, the
amount of the mortgage, and how you use the mortgage
proceeds.
If all of your mortgages fit into one or more of the following three categories at all times during the year, you can
deduct all of the interest on those mortgages. (If any one
mortgage fits into more than one category, add the debt
that fits in each category to your other debt in the same
category.) If one or more of your mortgages doesn’t fit into
any of these categories, use Part II of this publication to
figure the amount of interest you can deduct.
The three categories are as follows.
1. Mortgages you took out on or before October 13,
1987 (called grandfathered debt).
2. Mortgages you (or your spouse if married filing a joint
return) took out after October 13, 1987, and prior to
December 16, 2017 (see binding contract exception
below), to buy, build, or substantially improve your
home (called home acquisition debt), but only if
throughout 2025 these mortgages plus any grandfathered debt totaled $1 million or less ($500,000 or less
if married filing separately).
Exception. A taxpayer who enters into a written
binding contract before December 15, 2017, to close
on the purchase of a principal residence before January 1, 2018, and who purchases such residence before April 1, 2018, is considered to have incurred the
home acquisition debt prior to December 16, 2017.
3. Mortgages you (or your spouse if married filing a joint
return) took out after December 15, 2017, to buy,
build, or substantially improve your home (called
home acquisition debt), but only if throughout 2025
these mortgages plus any grandfathered debt totaled
$750,000 or less ($375,000 or less if married filing
separately).
The dollar limits for the second and third categories apply
to the combined mortgages on your main home and second home.
See Part II for more detailed definitions of grandfathered debt and home acquisition debt.
You can use Figure A to check whether your home
mortgage interest is fully deductible.

Publication 936 (2025)

Figure A. Is My Home Mortgage Interest Fully Deductible?
(Instructions: Include balances of ALL mortgages secured by your main home and second home.)

Start Here:

Do you meet the conditions1 to deduct home
mortgage interest?

No

You can’t deduct the interest payments as home
mortgage interest. 2

Yes

Were all of your home mortgages taken out
on or before October 13, 1987?

Yes

Your home mortgage interest is fully deductible. You
don’t need to read Part II of this publication.

No

Were all of your home mortgages taken out after
October 13, 1987, used to buy, build, or substantially
improve the main home secured by that main home
mortgage or used to buy, build, or substantially
improve the second home secured by that second
home mortgage, or both?

No

Go to Part II of this publication to determine the
limits on your deductible home mortgage interest.

Yes

Were your (or your spouse’s if married filing a joint
return) mortgage balances $750,000 or less
($375,000 or less if married filing separately)
(or $1 million or less ($500,000 if married filing
separately) if all debt was incurred prior to
December 16, 2017) at all times during the year? 3

No

Yes

Were your (or your spouse’s if married filing a joint
return) grandfathered debt plus home acquisition
debt balances $750,000 or less4 ($375,000 or less if
married filing separately) (or $1 million or less
($500,000 if married filing separately) if all debt was
incurred prior to December 16, 2017) at all times
during the year? 3

No

Yes

1 You must itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040). The loan must be a secured debt on a qualified home. See Part I, Home Mortgage Interest, earlier.
2 See Table 2 in Part II of this publication for where to deduct other types of interest payments.
3 A taxpayer who enters into a written binding contract before December 15, 2017, to close on the purchase of a principal residence before January 1, 2018,
and who purchases such residence before April 1, 2018, is considered to have incurred the home acquisition debt prior to December 16, 2017, and may use
the 2017 threshold amounts of $1,000,000 ($500,000 for married filing separately).
4
See Part II of this publication for more information about grandfathered debt and home acquisition debt.

Secured Debt

• Provides, in case of default, that your home could sat-

You can deduct your home mortgage interest only if your
mortgage is a secured debt. A secured debt is one in
which you sign an instrument (such as a mortgage, deed
of trust, or land contract) that:

• Is recorded or is otherwise perfected under any state

isfy the debt; and

or local law that applies.

payment of the debt;

In other words, your mortgage is a secured debt if you
put your home up as collateral to protect the interests of
the lender. If you can't pay the debt, your home can then
serve as payment to the lender to satisfy (pay) the debt. In
this publication, mortgage will refer to secured debt.

Publication 936 (2025)

3

• Makes your ownership in a qualified home security for

Debt not secured by home. A debt isn’t secured by
your home if it is secured solely because of a lien on your
general assets or if it is a security interest that attaches to
the property without your consent (such as a mechanic's
lien or judgment lien).
A debt isn’t secured by your home if it once was, but is
no longer, secured by your home.
Wraparound mortgage. This isn’t a secured debt unless it is recorded or otherwise perfected under state law.
Example. Ari owns a home subject to a mortgage of
$40,000. Ari sells the home for $100,000 to Palmer, who
takes it subject to the $40,000 mortgage. Ari continues to
make the payments on the $40,000 note. Palmer pays
$10,000 down and gives Ari a $90,000 note secured by a
wraparound mortgage on the home. Ari doesn't record or
otherwise perfect the $90,000 mortgage under the state
law that applies. Therefore, the mortgage isn't a secured
debt and Palmer can't deduct any of the interest paid on it
as home mortgage interest.
Choice to treat the debt as not secured by your
home. You can choose to treat any debt secured by your
qualified home as not secured by the home. This treatment begins with the tax year for which you make the
choice and continues for all later tax years. You can revoke your choice only with the consent of the IRS.
You may want to treat a debt as not secured by your
home if the interest on that debt is fully deductible (for example, as a business expense) whether or not it qualifies
as home mortgage interest. This may allow you, if the limits in Part II apply, more of a deduction for interest on other
debts that are deductible only as home mortgage interest.
Cooperative apartment owner. If you own stock in a cooperative housing corporation, see the Special Rule for
Tenant-Stockholders in Cooperative Housing Corporations near the end of this Part I.

Qualified Home

any time during the year, you can treat it as a qualified
home. You don't have to use the home during the year.
Second home rented out. If you have a second
home and rent it out part of the year, you must also use it
as a home during the year for it to be a qualified home.
You must use this home more than 14 days or more than
10% of the number of days during the year that the home
is rented at a fair rental, whichever is longer. If you don't
use the home long enough, it is considered rental property
and not a second home. For information on residential
rental property, see Pub. 527.
More than one second home. If you have more than
one second home, you can treat only one as the qualified
second home during any year. However, you can change
the home you treat as a second home during the year in
the following situations.

• If you get a new home during the year, you can choose
to treat the new home as your second home as of the
day you buy it.

• If your main home no longer qualifies as your main

home, you can choose to treat it as your second home
as of the day you stop using it as your main home.

• If your second home is sold during the year or be-

comes your main home, you can choose a new second home as of the day you sell the old one or begin
using it as your main home.

Divided use of your home. The only part of your home
that is considered a qualified home is the part you use for
residential living. If you use part of your home for other
than residential living, such as a home office, you must allocate the use of your home. You must then divide both
the cost and fair market value of your home between the
part that is a qualified home and the part that isn't. Dividing the cost may affect the amount of your home acquisition debt, which is limited to the cost of your home plus the
cost of any improvements. (See Home Acquisition Debt in
Part II, later.)

For you to take a home mortgage interest deduction, your
debt must be secured by a qualified home. This means
your main home or your second home. A home includes a
house, condominium, cooperative, mobile home, house
trailer, boat, or similar property that has sleeping, cooking,
and toilet facilities.

Renting out part of home. If you rent out part of a
qualified home to another person (tenant), you can treat
the rented part as being used by you for residential living
only if all of the following conditions apply.

The interest you pay on a mortgage on a home other
than your main or second home may be deductible if the
proceeds of the loan were used for business, investment,
or other deductible purposes. Otherwise, it is considered
personal interest and isn't deductible.

• The rented part of your home isn't a self-contained

Main home. You can have only one main home at any
one time. This is the home where you ordinarily live most
of the time.
Second home. A second home is a home that you
choose to treat as your second home.
Second home not rented out. If you have a second
home that you don’t hold out for rent or resale to others at
4

• The rented part of your home is used by the tenant primarily for residential living.

residential unit having separate sleeping, cooking, and
toilet facilities.

• You don't rent (directly or by sublease) the same or different parts of your home to more than two tenants at
any time during the tax year. If two persons (and dependents of either) share the same sleeping quarters,
they are treated as one tenant.

Office in home. If you have an office in your home that
you use in your business, see Pub. 587, Business Use of
Your Home. It explains how to figure your deduction for the
business use of your home, which includes the business
part of your home mortgage interest.
Publication 936 (2025)

Home under construction. You can treat a home under
construction as a qualified home for a period of up to 24
months, but only if it becomes your qualified home at the
time it is ready for occupancy.
The 24-month period can start any time on or after the
day construction begins.
Home destroyed. You may be able to continue treating
your home as a qualified home even after it is destroyed in
a fire, storm, tornado, earthquake, or other casualty. This
means you can continue to deduct the interest you pay on
your home mortgage, subject to the limits described in this
publication.
You can continue treating a destroyed home as a qualified home if, within a reasonable period of time after the
home is destroyed, you:

• Rebuild the destroyed home and move into it, or
• Sell the land on which the home was located.
This rule applies to your main home and to a second
home that you treat as a qualified home.
Time-sharing arrangements. You can treat a home you
own under a time-sharing plan as a qualified home if it
meets all the requirements. A time-sharing plan is an arrangement between two or more people that limits each
person's interest in the home or right to use it to a certain
part of the year.
Rental of time-share. If you rent out your time-share,
it qualifies as a second home only if you also use it as a
home during the year. See Second home rented out, earlier, for the use requirement. To know whether you meet
that requirement, count your days of use and rental of the
home only during the time you have a right to use it or to
receive any benefits from the rental of it.
Married taxpayers. If you're married and file a joint return, your qualified home(s) can be owned either jointly or
by only one spouse.
Separate returns. If you're married filing separately
and you and your spouse own more than one home, you
can each take into account only one home as a qualified
home. However, if you both consent in writing, then one
spouse can take both the main home and a second home
into account.

Special Situations
This section describes certain items that can be included
as home mortgage interest and others that can't. It also
describes certain special situations that may affect your
deduction.
Late payment charge on mortgage payment. You can
deduct as home mortgage interest a late payment charge
if it wasn't for a specific service performed in connection
with your mortgage loan.
Mortgage prepayment penalty. If you pay off your home
mortgage early, you may have to pay a penalty. You can
deduct that penalty as home mortgage interest provided
Publication 936 (2025)

the penalty isn't for a specific service performed or cost incurred in connection with your mortgage loan.
Sale of home. If you sell your home, you can deduct your
home mortgage interest (subject to any limits that apply)
paid up to, but not including, the date of the sale.
Example. Sasha and Harper Smith sold their home on
May 7. Through April 30, they made home mortgage interest payments of $1,220. The settlement sheet for the sale
of the home showed $50 interest for the 6-day period in
May up to, but not including, the date of sale. Their mortgage interest deduction is $1,270 ($1,220 + $50).
Prepaid interest. If you pay interest in advance for a period that goes beyond the end of the tax year, you must
spread this interest over the tax years to which it applies.
You can deduct in each year only the interest that qualifies
as home mortgage interest for that year. However, there is
an exception that applies to points, discussed later.
Mortgage interest credit. You may be able to claim a
mortgage interest credit if you were issued a mortgage
credit certificate (MCC) by a state or local government.
Figure the credit on Form 8396, Mortgage Interest Credit.
If you take this credit, you must reduce your mortgage interest deduction by the amount of the credit.
See Form 8396 and Pub. 530 for more information on
the mortgage interest credit.
Ministers' and military housing allowance. If you're a
minister or a member of the uniformed services and receive a housing allowance that isn't taxable, you can still
deduct your home mortgage interest. For more information, see Pub. 3 (military) or Pub. 517 (ministers).
Mortgage assistance payments under section 235 of
the National Housing Act. If you qualify for mortgage
assistance payments for lower-income families under section 235 of the National Housing Act, part or all of the interest on your mortgage may be paid for you. You can't deduct the interest that is paid for you.
No other effect on taxes. Don’t include these mortgage assistance payments in your income. Also, don't use
these payments to reduce other deductions, such as real
estate taxes.
Homeowner Assistance Fund. The Homeowner Assistance Fund program (HAF) was established to provide financial assistance to eligible homeowners for purposes of
paying certain expenses related to their principal residence to prevent mortgage delinquencies, defaults, foreclosures, loss of utilities or home energy services, and
also displacements of homeowners experiencing financial
hardship after January 21, 2020. If you are a homeowner
who received assistance under the HAF, the payments
from the HAF program are not considered income to you
and you cannot take a deduction or credit for expenditures
paid from the HAF program.
See sections on State and Local Real Estate Taxes and
Home Mortgage Interest, in Pub. 530, to determine
whether you meet the rules to deduct all of the mortgage
5

interest on your loan and all of the real estate taxes on
your main home. For more details about the HAF program,
see Homeowner Assistance Fund in Pub. 530. If you received HAF funds from an Indian Tribal Government or an
Alaska Native Corporation and wish more details about
the HAF program, see FAQs for Payments by Indian Tribal
Governments and Alaska Native Corporations to
Individuals Under COVID-Relief Legislation.
Divorced or separated individuals. If a qualified
pre-2019 divorce or separation agreement requires you to
pay home mortgage interest on a home owned by your
spouse or former spouse or by both of you, the payment of
interest may be alimony. See the discussion of Payments
for jointly owned home under Alimony in Pub. 504, Divorced or Separated Individuals.
Redeemable ground rents. In some states (such as
Maryland), you can buy your home subject to a ground
rent. A ground rent is an obligation you assume to pay a
fixed amount per year on the property. Under this arrangement, you're leasing (rather than buying) the land on
which your home is located.
If you make annual or periodic rental payments on a redeemable ground rent, you can deduct them as mortgage
interest.
A ground rent is a redeemable ground rent if all of the
following are true.

• Your lease, including renewal periods, is for more than
15 years.

• You can freely assign the lease.
• You have a present or future right (under state or local
law) to end the lease and buy the lessor's entire interest in the land by paying a specific amount.

• The lessor's interest in the land is primarily a security

interest to protect the rental payments to which they’re
entitled.

Payments made to end the lease and to buy the lessor's entire interest in the land aren't deductible as mortgage interest.
Nonredeemable ground rents. Payments on a nonredeemable ground rent aren't mortgage interest. You can
deduct them as rent if they are a business expense or if
they are for rental property.

Rental payments. If you live in a house before final settlement on the purchase, any payments you make for that
period are rent and not interest. This is true even if the settlement papers call them interest. You can't deduct these
payments as home mortgage interest.
Mortgage proceeds invested in tax-exempt securities. You can't deduct the home mortgage interest on
grandfathered debt if you used the proceeds of the mortgage to buy securities or certificates that produce tax-free
income. “Grandfathered debt” is defined in Part II of this
publication.
Refunds of interest. If you receive a refund of interest in
the same tax year you paid it, you must reduce your interest expense by the amount refunded to you. If you receive
a refund of interest you deducted in an earlier year, you
must generally include the refund in income in the year
you receive it. However, you need to include it only up to
the amount of the deduction that reduced your tax in the
earlier year. This is true whether the interest overcharge
was refunded to you or was used to reduce the outstanding principal on your mortgage. If you need to include the
refund in income, report it on Schedule 1 (Form 1040),
line 8z.
If you received a refund of interest you overpaid in an
earlier year, you will generally receive a Form 1098, Mortgage Interest Statement, showing the refund in box 4. For
information about Form 1098, see Form 1098, Mortgage
Interest Statement, below.
For more information on how to treat refunds of interest
deducted in earlier years, see Recoveries in Pub. 525,
Taxable and Nontaxable Income.
SBA disaster home loans. Interest paid on disaster
home loans from the Small Business Administration (SBA)
is deductible as mortgage interest if the requirements discussed earlier under Home Mortgage Interest are met.

Points
The term “points” is used to describe certain charges paid,
or treated as paid, by a borrower to obtain a home mortgage. Points may also be called loan origination fees,

Reverse mortgages. A reverse mortgage is a loan
where the lender pays you (in a lump sum, a monthly advance, a line of credit, or a combination of all three) while
you continue to live in your home. With a reverse mortgage, you retain title to your home. Depending on the
plan, your reverse mortgage becomes due, with interest,
when you move, sell your home, reach the end of a
pre-selected loan period, or die. Because reverse mortgages are considered loan advances and not income, the
amount you receive isn't taxable. Generally, any interest
(including original issue discount) accrued on a reverse
mortgage is considered interest on home equity debt and
isn’t deductible.

6

Publication 936 (2025)

maximum loan charges, loan discount, or discount points.
Figure B. Are My Points Fully Deductible This Year?
Start Here:

Is the loan secured by your main home?

No

Yes
Is the payment of points an established
business practice in your area?

No

Yes
Were the points paid more than the
amount generally charged in your area?

Yes

No
Do you use the cash method of
accounting?

No

Yes
Were the points paid in place of
amounts that ordinarily are separately
stated on the settlement sheet?

Yes

No
Were the funds you provided (other than
those you borrowed from your lender or
mortgage broker), plus any points the
seller paid, at least as much as the points
charged?*

No

Yes
Yes

Did you take out the loan to substantially
improve your main home?
No
Did you take out the loan to buy or build
your main home?

No

Yes
Were the points figured as a percentage
of the principal amount of the mortgage?

No

Yes
Is the amount paid clearly shown as
points on the settlement statement?

No

Yes
You can fully deduct the points this year
on Schedule A (Form 1040).

You cannot fully deduct the points this
year. See the discussion on Points,
earlier.

* The funds you provided are not required to have been applied to the points. They can include a down payment, an escrow deposit, earnest money, and other
funds you paid at or before closing for any purpose.

Publication 936 (2025)

7

A borrower is treated as paying any points that a home
seller pays for the borrower's mortgage. See Points paid
by the seller, later.

General Rule
You generally can't deduct the full amount of points in the
year paid. Because they are prepaid interest, you generally deduct them ratably over the life (term) of the mortgage. See Deduction Allowed Ratably next. If the loan is a
home equity, line of credit, or credit card loan and the proceeds from the loan are not used to buy, build, or substantially improve the home, the points are not deductible.
For exceptions to the general rule, see Deduction Allowed in Year Paid, later.

Deduction Allowed Ratably
If you don't meet the tests listed under Deduction Allowed
in Year Paid, later, the loan isn't a home improvement loan,
or you choose not to deduct your points in full in the year
paid, you can deduct the points ratably (equally) over the
life of the loan if you meet all of the following tests.
1. You use the cash method of accounting. This means
you report income in the year you receive it and deduct expenses in the year you pay them. Most individuals use this method.
2. Your loan is secured by a home. (The home doesn't
need to be your main home.)
3. Your loan period isn't more than 30 years.

2. Paying points is an established business practice in
the area where the loan was made.
3. The points paid weren't more than the points generally charged in that area.
4. You use the cash method of accounting. This means
you report income in the year you receive it and deduct expenses in the year you pay them. Most individuals use this method.
5. The points weren't paid in place of amounts that are
ordinarily stated separately on the settlement statement, such as appraisal fees, inspection fees, title
fees, attorney fees, and property taxes.
6. The funds you provided at or before closing, plus any
points the seller paid, were at least as much as the
points charged. The funds you provided aren't required to have been applied to the points. They can
include a down payment, an escrow deposit, earnest
money, and other funds you paid at or before closing
for any purpose. You can't have borrowed these funds
from your lender or mortgage broker.
7. You use your loan to buy or build your main home.
8. The points were figured as a percentage of the principal amount of the mortgage.
9. The amount is clearly shown on the settlement statement (such as the Settlement Statement, Form
HUD-1) as points charged for the mortgage. The
points may be shown as paid from either your funds or
the seller's.

4. If your loan period is more than 10 years, the terms of
your loan are the same as other loans offered in your
area for the same or longer period.

Note: If you meet all of these tests, you can choose to
either fully deduct the points in the year paid, or deduct
them over the life of the loan.

5. Either the initial principal amount of your loan was
$250,000 or less, or the number of points isn't more
than:

Home improvement loan. You can also fully deduct in
the year paid points paid on a loan to substantially improve your main home if tests 1 through 6 are met.

a. 4, if your loan period is 15 years or less; or

Caution: Second home. You can't fully deduct in the
year paid points you pay on loans secured by your second
home. You can deduct these points only over the life of the
loan.

b. 6, if your loan period is more than 15 years.
Example. You use the cash method of accounting. In
2025, you took out a $100,000 home mortgage loan payable over 20 years. The terms of the loan are the same as
for other 20-year loans offered in your area. You paid
$4,800 in points. You made 3 monthly payments on the
loan in 2025. You can deduct $60 [($4,800 ÷ 240 months)
x 3 payments] in 2025. In 2026, if you make all twelve payments, you will be able to deduct $240 ($20 x 12).

Deduction Allowed in Year Paid
You can fully deduct points in the year paid if you meet all
the following tests. (You can use Figure B as a quick guide
to see whether your points are fully deductible in the year
paid.)
1. Your loan is secured by your main home. (Your main
home is the one you ordinarily live in most of the
time.)
8

Refinancing. Generally, points you pay to refinance a
mortgage aren't deductible in full in the year you pay them.
This is true even if the new mortgage is secured by your
main home.
However, if you use part of the refinanced mortgage
proceeds to substantially improve your main home and
you meet the first six tests listed under Deduction Allowed
in Year Paid, earlier, you can fully deduct the part of the
points related to the improvement in the year you paid
them with your own funds. You can deduct the rest of the
points over the life of the loan.
Example 1. In 2005, you got a mortgage to buy a
home. In 2025, you refinanced that mortgage with a
15-year $100,000 mortgage loan. The mortgage is secured by your home. To get the new loan, you had to pay
three points ($3,000). Two points ($2,000) were for
Publication 936 (2025)

prepaid interest, and one point ($1,000) was charged for
services, in place of amounts that are ordinarily stated
separately on the settlement statement. You paid the
points out of your private funds, rather than out of the proceeds of the new loan. The payment of points is an established practice in the area, and the points charged aren't
more than the amount generally charged there. Your first
payment on the new loan was due July 1. You made six
payments on the loan in 2025 and are a cash basis taxpayer.
You used the funds from the new mortgage to repay
your existing mortgage. Although the new mortgage loan
was for your continued ownership of your main home, it
wasn't for the purchase or substantial improvement of that
home. You can't deduct all of the points in 2025. You can
deduct two points ($2,000) ratably over the life of the loan.
You deduct $67 [($2,000 ÷ 180 months) × 6 payments] of
the points in 2025. The other point ($1,000) was a fee for
services and isn't deductible.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that you used $25,000 of the loan proceeds to substantially improve your home and $75,000 to repay your
existing mortgage. You deduct 25% ($25,000 ÷ $100,000)
of the points ($2,000) in 2025. Your deduction is $500
($2,000 × 25% (0.25)).
You also deduct the ratable part of the remaining
$1,500 ($2,000 − $500) that must be spread over the life
of the loan. This is $50 [($1,500 ÷ 180 months) × 6 payments] in 2025. The total amount you deduct in 2025 is
$550 ($500 + $50).

Special Situations
This section describes certain special situations that may
affect your deduction of points.
Original issue discount. If you don't qualify to either deduct the points in the year paid or deduct them ratably
over the life of the loan, or if you choose not to use either
of these methods, the points reduce the issue price of the
loan. This reduction results in original issue discount.
Amounts charged for services. Amounts charged by
the lender for specific services connected to the loan
aren't interest. Examples of these charges are:

• Appraisal fees,
• Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) funding fees,
• Mortgage insurance premiums,
• Notary fees, and
• Preparation costs for the mortgage note or deed of
trust.

You can't deduct these amounts as points either in the
year paid or over the life of the mortgage.
Points paid by the seller. The term “points” includes
loan placement fees that the seller pays to the lender to
arrange financing for the buyer.

Publication 936 (2025)

Treatment by seller. The seller can't deduct these
fees as interest. But they are a selling expense that reduces the amount realized by the seller. See Pub. 523 for
information on selling your home.
Treatment by buyer. The buyer reduces the basis of
the home by the amount of the seller-paid points and
treats the points as if the buyer had paid them. If all the
tests under Deduction Allowed in Year Paid, earlier, are
met, the buyer can deduct the points in the year paid. If
any of those tests aren't met, the buyer deducts the points
over the life of the loan.
If you need information about the basis of your home,
see Pub. 523 or Pub. 530.
Funds provided are less than points. If you meet all
the tests in Deduction Allowed in Year Paid, earlier, except
that the funds you provided were less than the points
charged to you (test 6, earlier), you can deduct the points
in the year paid, up to the amount of funds you provided.
In addition, you can deduct any points paid by the seller.
Example 1. When you took out a $100,000 mortgage
loan to buy your home in December, you were charged
one point ($1,000). You meet all the tests for deducting
points in the year paid, except the only funds you provided
were a $750 down payment. Of the $1,000 charged for
points, you can deduct $750 in the year paid. You spread
the remaining $250 over the life of the mortgage.
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1,
except that the person who sold you your home also paid
one point ($1,000) to help you get your mortgage. In the
year paid, you can deduct $1,750 ($750 of the amount you
were charged plus the $1,000 paid by the seller). You
spread the remaining $250 over the life of the mortgage.
You must reduce the basis of your home by the $1,000
paid by the seller.
Excess points. If you meet all the tests in Deduction Allowed in Year Paid, earlier, except that the points paid
were more than generally paid in your area (test 3), you
deduct in the year paid only the points that are generally
charged. You must spread any additional points over the
life of the mortgage.
Mortgage ending early. If you spread your deduction for
points over the life of the mortgage, you can deduct any
remaining balance in the year the mortgage ends. However, if you refinance the mortgage with the same lender,
you can't deduct any remaining balance of spread points.
Instead, deduct the remaining balance over the term of the
new loan.
A mortgage may end early due to a prepayment, refinancing, foreclosure, or similar event.
Example. You paid $3,000 in points in 2014 that you
had to spread out over the 15-year life of the mortgage.
You deduct $200 points per year. Through 2024, you have
deducted $2,200 of the points.
You prepaid your mortgage in full in 2025. You can deduct the remaining $800 of points in 2025.
9

Limits on deduction. You can't fully deduct points paid
on a mortgage that exceeds the limits discussed in Part II.
See the Table 1 Instructions, later, for line 13.
Form 1098. The mortgage interest statement you receive
should show not only the total interest paid during the
year, but also your mortgage insurance premiums and deductible points paid during the year. See Form 1098, Mortgage Interest Statement, later.

Form 1098, Mortgage Interest
Statement
If you paid $600 or more of mortgage interest (including
certain points) during the year on any one mortgage, you
will generally receive a Form 1098 or a similar statement
from the mortgage holder. You will receive the statement if
you pay interest to a person (including a financial institution or cooperative housing corporation) in the course of
that person's trade or business. A governmental unit is a
person for purposes of furnishing the statement.
The statement for each year should be sent to you by
January 31 of the following year. A copy of this form will
also be sent to the IRS.
The statement will show the total interest you paid during the year, any mortgage insurance premiums you paid,
and if you purchased a principal residence during the
year, it will also show the points paid during the year, including seller-paid points, that are deductible as interest to
the extent you do not exceed the home acquisition debt
limit. See Part II. Limits on Home Mortgage Interest Deduction, later. However, the statement shouldn't show any
interest that was paid for you by a government agency.
As a general rule, Form 1098 will include only points
that you can fully deduct in the year paid. However, it may
report points that you can't deduct, particularly if you are
filing married filing separately or have mortgages for multiple properties. You must take care to deduct only those
points legally allowable. Additionally, certain points not included on Form 1098 may also be deductible, either in the
year paid or over the life of the loan. See the earlier discussion of Points to determine whether you can deduct
points not shown on Form 1098.
Prepaid interest on Form 1098. If you prepaid interest
in 2025 that accrued in full by January 15, 2026, this prepaid interest may be included in box 1 of Form 1098. However, you can't deduct the prepaid amount for January
2026 in 2025. (See Prepaid interest, earlier.) You will have
to figure the interest that accrued for 2026 and subtract it
from the amount in box 1. You will include the interest for
January 2026 with other interest you pay for 2026.
Refunded interest. If you received a refund of mortgage
interest you overpaid in an earlier year, you will generally
receive a Form 1098 showing the refund in box 4. See Refunds of interest, earlier.

10

How To Report
Generally, you can deduct the home mortgage interest
and points reported to you on Form 1098 on Schedule A
(Form 1040), line 8a. However, any interest showing in
box 1 of Form 1098 from a home equity loan, or a line of
credit or credit card loan secured by the property, is not
deductible if the proceeds were not used to buy, build, or
substantially improve a qualified home. If you paid more
deductible interest to the financial institution than the
amount shown on Form 1098, show the portion of the deductible interest that was omitted from Form 1098 on
line 8b. Attach a statement to your paper return explaining
the difference and print “See attached” next to line 8b.
Deduct home mortgage interest that wasn't reported to
you on Form 1098 on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 8b. If
you paid home mortgage interest to the person from
whom you bought your home, show that person's name,
address, and taxpayer identification number (TIN) on the
dotted lines next to line 8b. The seller must give you this
number and you must give the seller your TIN. A Form
W-9, Request for Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification, can be used for this purpose. Failure to meet any
of these requirements may result in a $50 penalty for each
failure. The TIN can be either a social security number, an
individual taxpayer identification number (issued by the
IRS), or an employer identification number (EIN).
If you can take a deduction for points that weren’t reported to you on Form 1098, deduct those points on Schedule A (Form 1040), line 8c.
More than one borrower. If you and at least one other
person (other than your spouse if you file a joint return)
were liable for and paid interest on a mortgage that was
for your home, and the other person received a Form 1098
showing the interest that was paid during the year, attach
a statement to your paper return explaining this. Show
how much of the interest each of you paid, and give the
name and address of the person who received the form.
Deduct your share of the interest on Schedule A (Form
1040), line 8b, and print “See attached” next to the line.
Similarly, if you're the payer of record on a mortgage on
which there are other borrowers entitled to a deduction for
the interest shown on the Form 1098 you received, deduct
only your share of the interest on Schedule A (Form
1040), line 8a. Let each of the other borrowers know what
their share is.
Mortgage proceeds used for business or investment.
If your home mortgage interest deduction is limited under
the rules explained in Part II, but all or part of the mortgage
proceeds were used for business, investment, or other deductible activities, see Table 2 near the end of this publication. It shows where to deduct the part of your excess interest that is for those activities. The Table 1 Instructions
for line 16 in Part II explain how to divide the excess interest among the activities for which the mortgage proceeds
were used.

Publication 936 (2025)

Special Rule for Tenant-Stockholders
in Cooperative Housing Corporations
A qualified home includes stock in a cooperative housing
corporation owned by a tenant-stockholder. This applies
only if the tenant-stockholder is entitled to live in the house
or apartment because of owning stock in the cooperative.
Cooperative housing corporation. This is a corporation that meets all of the following conditions.
1. Has only one class of stock outstanding.
2. Has no stockholders other than those that own the
stock who can live in a house, apartment, or house
trailer owned or leased by the corporation.
3. Has no stockholders who can receive any distribution
out of capital other than on a liquidation of the corporation.
4. Meets at least one of the following requirements.
a. Receives at least 80% of its gross income for the
year in which the mortgage interest is paid or incurred from tenant-stockholders. For this purpose,
gross income is all income received during the entire year, including amounts received before the
corporation changed to cooperative ownership.
b. At all times during the year, at least 80% of the total square footage of the corporation's property is
used or available for use by the tenant-stockholders for residential or residential-related use.
c. At least 90% of the corporation's expenditures
paid or incurred during the year are for the acquisition, construction, management, maintenance, or
care of corporate property for the benefit of the
tenant-stockholders.
Stock used to secure debt. In some cases, you can't
use your cooperative housing stock to secure a debt because of either:

• Restrictions under local or state law, or
• Restrictions in the cooperative agreement (other than

restrictions in which the main purpose is to permit the
tenantstockholder to treat unsecured debt as secured debt).

However, you can treat a debt as secured by the stock to
the extent that the proceeds are used to buy the stock under the allocation of interest rules.
Figuring deductible home mortgage interest. Generally, if you're a tenant-stockholder, you can deduct payments you make for your share of the interest paid or incurred by the cooperative. The interest must be on a debt
to buy, build, change, improve, or maintain the cooperative's housing, or on a debt to buy the land.
Figure your share of this interest by multiplying the total
by the following fraction.
Your shares of stock in the cooperative
The total shares of stock in the
cooperative

Publication 936 (2025)

Cooperative apartment owner. If you own a cooperative apartment, you must reduce your home mortgage interest deduction by your share of any cash portion of a patronage dividend that the cooperative receives. The
patronage dividend is a partial refund to the cooperative
housing corporation of mortgage interest if paid in a prior
year.
If you receive a Form 1098 from the cooperative housing corporation, the form should show only the amount
you can deduct.
Limits on deduction. To figure how the limits discussed in Part II apply to you, treat your share of the cooperative's debt as debt incurred by you. The cooperative
should determine your share of its grandfathered debt,
and its home acquisition debt. (Your share of each of
these types of debt is equal to the average balance of
each debt multiplied by the fraction just given.) After your
share of the average balance of each type of debt is determined, you include it with the average balance of that type
of debt secured by your stock.
Form 1098. The cooperative should give you a Form
1098 showing your share of the interest. Use the rules in
this publication to determine your deductible mortgage interest.

Part II. Limits on Home
Mortgage Interest Deduction
This part of the publication discusses the limits on deductible home mortgage interest. These limits apply to your
home mortgage interest expense if you have a home mortgage that doesn't fit into any of the three categories listed
at the beginning of Part I under Fully deductible interest,
earlier.
Your home mortgage interest deduction is limited to the
interest on the part of your home mortgage debt that isn't
more than your qualified loan limit. This is the part of your
home mortgage debt that is grandfathered debt or that
isn't more than the limits for home acquisition debt. Table 1 can help you figure your qualified loan limit and your
deductible home mortgage interest.

Home Acquisition Debt
Home acquisition debt is a mortgage you took out after
October 13, 1987, to buy, build, or substantially improve a
qualified home (your main or second home). It must also
be secured by that home.
If the amount of your mortgage is more than the cost of
the home plus the cost of any substantial improvements,
only the debt that isn't more than the cost of the home plus
substantial improvements qualifies as home acquisition
debt.
Home acquisition debt limit. The total amount you (or
your spouse if married filing a joint return) can treat as
11

home acquisition debt on your main home and second
home is limited based on when the debt is secured.

• For debt secured after October 13, 1987, and prior to

December 16, 2017, the limit is $1 million ($500,000 if
married filing separately).

• For debt secured after December 15, 2017, the limit is

$750,000 ($375,000 if married filing separately). However, a taxpayer who entered into a written binding
contract before December 15, 2017, to close on the
purchase of a principal residence before January 1,
2018, and who purchased such residence before April
1, 2018, is considered to have incurred the home acquisition debt prior to December 16, 2017.

The limits above are reduced (but not below zero) by the
amount of your grandfathered debt (discussed later).
Refinanced home acquisition debt. Any secured debt
you use to refinance home acquisition debt is treated as
home acquisition debt. However, the new debt will qualify
as home acquisition debt only up to the amount of the balance of the old mortgage principal just before the refinancing. Any additional debt not used to buy, build, or substantially improve a qualified home isn't home acquisition debt.
Mortgage that qualifies later. A mortgage that doesn't
qualify as home acquisition debt because it doesn't meet
all the requirements may qualify at a later time. For example, a debt that you use to buy your home may not qualify
as home acquisition debt because it isn't secured by the
home. However, if the debt is later secured by the home, it
may qualify as home acquisition debt after that time. Similarly, a debt that you use to buy property may not qualify
because the property isn't a qualified home. However, if
the property later becomes a qualified home, the debt may
qualify after that time.
Mortgage treated as used to buy, build, or substantially improve home. A mortgage secured by a qualified
home may be treated as home acquisition debt, even if
you don't actually use the proceeds to buy, build, or substantially improve the home. This applies in the following
situations.
1. You buy your home within 90 days before or after the
date you take out the mortgage. The home acquisition
debt is limited to the home's cost, plus the cost of any
substantial improvements within the limit described
below in (2) or (3). (See Example 1, later.)
2. You build or substantially improve your home and take
out the mortgage before the work is completed. The
home acquisition debt is limited to the amount of the
expenses incurred within 24 months before the date
of the mortgage.
3. You build or substantially improve your home and take
out the mortgage within 90 days after the work is completed. The home acquisition debt is limited to the
amount of the expenses incurred within the period beginning 24 months before the work is completed and
ending on the date of the mortgage. (See Example 2,
later.)
12

Example 1. You bought your main home on June 3 for
$175,000. You paid for the home with cash you got from
the sale of your old home. On July 15, you took out a mortgage of $150,000 secured by your main home. You used
the $150,000 to invest in stocks. You can treat the mortgage as taken out to buy your home because you bought
the home within 90 days before you took out the mortgage. The entire mortgage qualifies as home acquisition
debt because it wasn't more than the home's cost.
Example 2. On January 31, Logan began building a
home on the lot that Logan owned. Logan used $45,000
of personal funds to build the home. The home was completed on October 31. On November 21, Logan took out a
$36,000 mortgage that was secured by the home. The
mortgage can be treated as used to build the home because it was taken out within 90 days after the home was
completed. The entire mortgage qualifies as home acquisition debt because it wasn't more than the expenses incurred within the period beginning 24 months before the
home was completed. This is illustrated by Figure C.
Figure C.
Logan
Starts
Building
Home

Home
Completed
($45,000 in
Personal
Funds Used)

$36,000
Mortgage
Taken Out

Jan. 31

Oct. 31

Nov. 21

9 Months
22 Days
(Within 24 Months) (Within 90 Days)

Date of the mortgage. The date you take out your
mortgage is the day the loan proceeds are disbursed. This
is generally the closing date. You can treat the day you apply in writing for your mortgage as the date you take it out.
However, this applies only if you receive the loan proceeds within a reasonable time (such as within 30 days)
after your application is approved. If a timely application
you make is rejected, a reasonable additional time will be
allowed to make a new application.
Cost of home or improvements. To determine your
cost, include amounts paid to acquire any interest in a
qualified home or to substantially improve the home.
The cost of building or substantially improving a qualified home includes the costs to acquire real property and
building materials, fees for architects and design plans,
and required building permits.
Substantial improvement. An improvement is substantial if it:

• Adds to the value of your home,
• Prolongs your home's useful life, or
• Adapts your home to new uses.
Repairs that maintain your home in good condition,
such as repainting your home, aren't substantial
Publication 936 (2025)

improvements. However, if you paint your home as part of
a renovation that substantially improves your qualified
home, you can include the painting costs in the cost of the
improvements.
Acquiring an interest in a home because of a divorce. If you incur debt to acquire the interest of a spouse
or former spouse in a home because of a divorce or legal
separation, you can treat that debt as home acquisition
debt.
Part of home not a qualified home. To figure your
home acquisition debt, you must divide the cost of your
home and improvements between the part of your home
that is a qualified home and any part that isn't a qualified
home. See Divided use of your home under Qualified
Home in Part I, earlier.

Grandfathered Debt
If you took out a mortgage on your home before October
14, 1987, or you refinanced such a mortgage, it may qualify as grandfathered debt. To qualify, it must have been secured by your qualified home on October 13, 1987, and at
all times after that date. How you used the proceeds
doesn't matter.
Grandfathered debt isn't limited. All of the interest you
paid on grandfathered debt is fully deductible home mortgage interest. However, the amount of your grandfathered
debt reduces the limit for home acquisition debt.
Refinanced grandfathered debt. If you refinanced
grandfathered debt after October 13, 1987, for an amount
that wasn't more than the mortgage principal left on the
debt, then you still treat it as grandfathered debt. To the
extent the new debt is more than that mortgage principal,
it is treated as home acquisition debt (so long as the proceeds were used to buy, build, or substantially improve the
home), and the mortgage is a mixed-use mortgage (dis-

Publication 936 (2025)

cussed later under Average Mortgage Balance in the Table 1 Instructions). The debt must be secured by the qualified home.
You treat grandfathered debt that was refinanced after
October 13, 1987, as grandfathered debt only for the term
left on the debt that was refinanced. After that, you treat it
as home acquisition debt to the extent that it was used to
buy, build, or substantially improve the home.
Exception. If the debt before refinancing was like a
balloon note (the principal on the debt wasn't amortized
over the term of the debt), then you treat the refinanced
debt as grandfathered debt for the term of the first refinancing. This term can't be more than 30 years.
Example. You took out a $200,000 first mortgage on
your home in 1986. The mortgage was a 10-year balloon
note and the entire balance on the note was due in 1996.
You refinanced the debt in 1996 with a new 30-year mortgage. The refinanced debt is treated as grandfathered
debt for its entire term (30 years).

Table 1 Instructions
You can deduct all of the interest you paid during the year
on mortgages secured by your main home or second
home in either of the following two situations.

• All the mortgages are grandfathered debt.
• The total of the mortgage balances for the entire year
is within the limits discussed earlier under Home Acquisition Debt.

In either of those cases, you don't need Table 1. Otherwise, you can use Table 1 to determine your qualified loan
limit and deductible home mortgage interest.
Tip: Fill out only one Table 1 for both your main and
second home regardless of how many mortgages you
have.

13

Table 1. Worksheet To Figure Your Qualified Loan Limit and Deductible Home Mortgage
Interest for the Current Year
See the Table 1 Instructions.
Part I

Qualified Loan Limit

1.

Enter the average balance of all your grandfathered debt. See the line 1
instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.

2.

Enter the average balance of all your home acquisition debt incurred after October
13, 1987, and prior to December 16, 2017. See the line 2 instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

3.

Enter $1,000,000 ($500,000 if married filing separately) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

4.

Enter the larger of the amount on line 1 or the amount on line 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

5.

Add the amounts on lines 1 and 2. Enter the total here . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.

6.

Enter the smaller of the amount on line 4 or the amount on line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6.

• If you have no home acquisition debt incurred after December 15, 2017, or the

amount on line 6 is $750,000 ($375,000 if married filing separately) or more,
line 6 is your qualified loan limit. Enter this amount on line 11 and go to Part II,
line 12.
If
• you have home acquisition debt incurred after December 15, 2017, go to line 7.
7.

Enter the average balance of all your home acquisition debt incurred after December
15, 2017. See the line 7 instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

7.

8.

Enter $750,000 ($375,000 if married filing separately) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.

9.

Enter the larger of the amount on line 6 or the amount on line 8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

9.

10. Add the amounts on lines 6 and 7. Enter the total here . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10.

11. Enter the smaller of line 9 or line 10. This is your qualified loan limit . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11.

Part II

Deductible Home Mortgage Interest

12. Enter the total of the average balances of all mortgages from lines 1, 2, and 7 on all
qualified homes.
See the line 12 instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

12.

• If line 11 is less than line 12, go on to line 13.
• If line 11 is equal to or more than line 12, stop here. All of your interest on all the
mortgages included on line 12 is deductible as home mortgage interest on
Schedule A (Form 1040).

13. Enter the total amount of interest that you paid on the loans from line 12. See the
line 13 instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

13.

14. Divide the amount on line 11 by the amount on line 12. Enter the result as a decimal
amount (rounded to three places) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

14.

15. Multiply the amount on line 13 by the decimal amount on line 14. Enter the result.
This is your deductible home mortgage interest. Enter this amount on
Schedule A (Form 1040) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

15.

16. Subtract the amount on line 15 from the amount on line 13. Enter the result. This
isn't home mortgage interest. See the line 16 instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

16.

14

×.

Publication 936 (2025)

Average Mortgage Balance
You have to figure the average balance of each mortgage
to determine your qualified loan limit. You need these
amounts to complete lines 1, 2, 7, and 12 of Table 1. You
can use the highest mortgage balances during the year,
but you may benefit most by using the average balances.
The following are methods you can use to figure your
average mortgage balances. However, if a mortgage has
more than one category of debt, see Mixed-use mortgages, later, in this section.
Average of first and last balance method. You can use
this method if all the following apply.

• You didn't borrow any new amounts on the mortgage
during the year. (This doesn't include borrowing the
original mortgage amount.)

• You didn't prepay more than 1 month's principal during
the year. (This includes prepayment by refinancing
your home or by applying proceeds from its sale.)

• You had to make level payments at fixed equal inter-

vals on at least a semi-annual basis. You treat your
payments as level even if they were adjusted from time
to time because of changes in the interest rate.

To figure your average balance, complete the following
worksheet.
1.

Enter the balance as of the first day of the year
that the mortgage was secured by your qualified
home during the year (generally, January 1) . . . .

2.

Enter the balance as of the last day of the year
that the mortgage was secured by your qualified
home during the year (generally, December
31) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.

Add amounts on lines 1 and 2 . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.

Divide the amount on line 3 by 2.0. Enter
the result . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Interest paid divided by interest rate method. You can
use this method if at all times in 2025 the mortgage was
secured by your qualified home and the interest was paid
at least monthly.
Complete the following worksheet to figure your average balance.

1.

2.

3.

Enter the interest paid in 2025. Don’t include
points, mortgage insurance premiums, or any
interest paid in 2025 that is for a year after 2025.
However, do include interest that is for 2025 but
was paid in an earlier year . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$2,500

Enter the annual interest rate on the mortgage. If
the interest rate varied in 2025, use the lowest
rate for the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

0.09

Divide the amount on line 1 by the amount on
line 2. Enter the result . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$27,778

Statements provided by your lender. If you receive
monthly statements showing the closing balance or the
average balance for the month, you can use either to figure your average balance for the year. You can treat the
balance as zero for any month the mortgage wasn't secured by your qualified home.
For each mortgage, figure your average balance by
adding your monthly closing or average balances and dividing that total by the number of months the home secured by that mortgage was a qualified home during the
year.
If your lender can give you your average balance for the
year, you can use that amount.
Example. You had a home loan secured by your main
home all year. You received monthly statements showing
your average balance for each month. You can figure your
average balance for the year by adding your monthly average balances and dividing the total by 12.
Mixed-use mortgages. A mixed-use mortgage is a loan
that consists of more than one of the three categories of
debt (grandfathered debt, home acquisition debt, and
home equity debt). For example, a mortgage you took out
during the year is a mixed-use mortgage if you used its
proceeds partly to refinance a mortgage that you took out
in an earlier year to buy your home (home acquisition
debt) and partly to buy a car (home equity debt).
Complete lines 1, 2, and 7 of Table 1 by including the
separate average balances of any grandfathered debt and
home acquisition debt (determined by the date the debt
was acquired) in your mixed-use mortgage. Don’t use the
methods described earlier in this section to figure the
average balance of either category. Instead, for each category, use the following method.

1.

Enter the interest paid in 2025. Don't include points,
or any interest paid in 2025 that is for a year after
2025. However, do include interest that is for 2025
but was paid in an earlier year . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.

Enter the annual interest rate on the mortgage. If
the interest rate varied in 2025, use the lowest rate
for the year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1. Figure the balance of that category of debt for each
month. This is the amount of the loan proceeds allocated to that category, reduced by your principal payments on the mortgage previously applied to that category. Principal payments on a mixed-use mortgage
are applied in full to each category of debt, until its
balance is zero, in the following order.

3.

Divide the amount on line 1 by the amount on
line 2. Enter the result . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

a. First, any home equity debt not used to buy, build,
or substantially improve the home.

Example. You had a mortgage secured by your main
home all year. You paid interest of $2,500 on this loan.
The interest rate on the loan was 9% (0.09) all year. Your
average balance using this method is $27,778, figured as
follows.
Publication 936 (2025)

b. Next, any grandfathered debt.
c. Finally, any home acquisition debt.
2. Add together the monthly balances figured for b and c
in (1).
15

Complete line 12 of Table 1 using the figure from line 2
above.
Example 1. In 1986, you took out a first mortgage of
$1,400,000. The mortgage was a 10-year balloon note
and the entire balance on the note was due in 1996. You
refinanced the debt in 1996 with a new 30-year mortgage
(grandfathered debt). On March 2, 2025, when the home
had a fair market value of $1,700,000 and you owed
$500,000 on the mortgage, you took out a second mortgage for $200,000. You used $180,000 of the proceeds to
make substantial improvements to your home (home acquisition debt) and the remaining $20,000 to buy a car
(home equity debt). Under the loan agreement, you must
make principal payments of $1,000 at the end of each
month. During 2025, your principal payments on the second mortgage totaled $10,000.
To complete Table 1, line 7, you must figure a separate
average balance for the part of your second mortgage that
is home acquisition debt. The January and February balances were zero. The March through December balances
were all $180,000 because none of your principal payments are applied to the home acquisition debt. (They are
all applied to the home equity debt, reducing it to $10,000
[$20,000 − $10,000].) The monthly balances of the home
acquisition debt total $1,800,000 ($180,000 × 10). Therefore, the average balance of the home acquisition debt for
2025 was $150,000 ($1,800,000 ÷ 12).
Example 2. The facts are the same as in Example 1.
In 2026, your January through October principal payments
on your second mortgage are applied to the home equity
debt, reducing it to zero. The balance of the home acquisition debt remains $180,000 for each of those months. Because your November and December principal payments
are applied to the home acquisition debt, the November
balance is $179,000 ($180,000 − $1,000) and the December balance is $178,000 ($180,000 − $2,000). The
monthly balances total $2,157,000 [($180,000 × 10) +
$179,000 + $178,000]. Therefore, the average balance of
the home acquisition debt for 2026 is $179,750
($2,157,000 ÷ 12).

Line 1
Figure the average balance for the current year of each
mortgage you had on all qualified homes on October 13,
1987 (grandfathered debt). Add the results together and
enter the total on line 1. Include the average balance for
the current year for any grandfathered debt that is part of a
mixed-use mortgage.

Line 2
Figure the average balance for the current year of each
mortgage you took out on all qualified homes after October 13, 1987, and prior to December 16, 2017, to buy,
build, or substantially improve the home (home acquisition
debt). Add the results together and enter the total on

16

line 2. Include the average balance for the current year for
any home acquisition debt that is part of a mixed-use
mortgage.

Line 7
Figure the average balance for the current year of each
mortgage you took out on all qualified homes after December 15, 2017, to buy, build, or substantially improve
the home (home acquisition debt). Add the results together and enter the total on line 7.

Line 12
Figure the average balance for the current year of each
outstanding home mortgage. Add the average balances
together and enter the total on line 12. See Average Mortgage Balance, earlier.
Note: If the average balance consists of more than one
category of debt (grandfathered debt, home acquisition
debt, and home equity debt), see Mixed-use mortgages,
earlier, to figure the average mortgage balance.

Line 13
If you make payments to a financial institution, or to a person whose business is making loans, you should get Form
1098 or a similar statement from the lender. This form will
show the amount of interest to enter on line 13. Also, include on this line any other interest payments made on
debts secured by a qualified home for which you didn't receive a Form 1098. Don't include points or mortgage insurance premiums on this line.
Claiming your deductible points. Figure your deductible points as follows.
1. Figure your deductible points for the current year using the rules explained under Points in Part I, earlier.
2. Multiply the amount in item 1 by the decimal amount
on line 14. Enter the result on Schedule A (Form
1040), line 8a or 8c, whichever applies. This amount
is fully deductible.
3. Subtract the result in item 2 from the amount in item 1.
This amount isn't deductible as home mortgage interest. However, if you used any of the loan proceeds for
business or investment activities, see the instructions
for line 16 next.

Line 16
You can't deduct the amount of interest on line 16 as
home mortgage interest. If you didn't use any of the proceeds of any mortgage included on line 12 of the worksheet for business, investment, or other deductible activities, then all the interest on line 16 is personal interest.
Personal interest isn't deductible.

Publication 936 (2025)

Table 2. Where To Deduct Your Interest Expense
IF you have ...

THEN deduct it on ...

AND for more information, go to ...

deductible student loan interest

Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 21

Pub. 970, Tax Benefits for Education.

deductible home mortgage interest
and points reported on Form 1098

Schedule A (Form 1040), line 8a

this publication (936).

deductible home mortgage interest
not reported on Form 1098

Schedule A (Form 1040), line 8b

this publication (936).

deductible points not reported on
Form 1098

Schedule A (Form 1040), line 8c

this publication (936).

deductible investment interest (other
than incurred to produce rents or
royalties)

Schedule A (Form 1040), line 9

Pub. 550, Investment Income and
Expenses.

deductible business interest
(non-farm)

Schedule C (Form 1040)

deductible farm business interest

Schedule F (Form 1040)

Pub. 225, Farmer's Tax Guide.

deductible interest incurred to
produce rents or royalties

Schedule E (Form 1040)

Pub. 527, Residential Rental Property.

personal interest

not deductible.

If you did use all or part of any mortgage proceeds for
business, investment, or other deductible activities, the
part of the interest on line 16 that is allocable to those activities can be deducted as business, investment, or other
deductible expense, subject to any limits that apply. Table 2 shows where to deduct that interest. See Allocation
of Interest in Temporary Regulations section 1.163-8T.
The following two rules describe how to allocate the interest on line 16 to a business or investment activity.

proceeds of mortgage B are allocable to your business for
the entire year. You paid $14,000 of interest on mortgage
A and $16,000 of interest on mortgage B. You figure the
amount of home mortgage interest you can deduct by using Table 1. You determine that $15,000 of the interest can
be deducted as home mortgage interest.
The interest you can allocate to your business is the
smaller of:
1. The amount on Table 1, line 16, of the worksheet
($15,000); or

• If you used all of the proceeds of the mortgages on

2. The total amount of interest allocable to the business
($16,500), figured by multiplying the amount on
line 13 (the $30,000 total interest paid) by the following fraction.

• If you used the proceeds of the mortgages on line 12

$110,000 (the average balance
of the mortgage allocated
to the business)

line 12 for one activity, then all the interest on line 16 is
allocated to that activity. In this case, deduct the interest on the form or schedule to which it applies.
for more than one activity, then you can allocate the interest on line 16 among the activities in any manner
you select (up to the total amount of interest otherwise
allocable to each activity, explained next).

You figure the total amount of interest otherwise allocable to each activity by multiplying the amount on line 13 by
the following fraction.
Amount on line 12
allocated to that activity
Total amount on line 12

Example. You had two mortgages (A and B) on your
main home during the entire year. Mortgage A had an
average balance of $90,000, and mortgage B had an
average balance of $110,000.
You determine that the proceeds of mortgage A are allocable to personal expenses for the entire year. The
Publication 936 (2025)

$200,000 (the total average
balance of all mortgages)

Because $15,000 is the smaller of items 1 and 2, that is
the amount of interest you can allocate to your business.
You deduct this amount on your Schedule C (Form 1040).

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications,
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that
can help you right away.

17

Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting federal
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P.L. 119-21,
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act on July
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After receiving all
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G,
1099-R, 1099-MISC, 1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form 1099-G);
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have several options to choose from to prepare and file your tax return. You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online or in your local community, if you qualify, include the following.

• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your

federal individual income tax return for free using software or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or
payment options.

• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA)

program offers free tax help to people with
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities,
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return preparation.

• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-

gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volunteers specialize in answering questions about pensions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors.
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app
for information on free tax return preparation.

• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-

fied veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military
OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can
be completed online and then e-filed regardless of income.

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to
IRS.gov/Tools for the following.

• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the
earned income credit (EITC).

18

• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no
cost.

• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App)

makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income
tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck. This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.

• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/

SalesTax) figures the amount you can claim if you
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On
IRS.gov, you can get up-to-date information on
current events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get answers to some of the most common tax questions.

• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant, a tool that
will ask you questions and, based on your input, provide answers on a number of tax topics.

• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-

tions. You will find details on the most recent tax
changes and interactive links to help you find answers
to your questions.

• You may also be able to access tax information in your
e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return? There are
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants,
and many others who don’t have professional credentials.
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return,
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:

• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,

• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification
number (PTIN).

Although the tax preparer always signs the return,
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the
CAUTION information required for the preparer to accurately
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

!

Employers can register to use Business Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage and Tax
Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected Wage and Tax
Statement.

Publication 936 (2025)

Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our
highest priority. We use these tools to share public information with you. Don’t post your social security number
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social
networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide short, informative videos on various tax-related topics in English,
Spanish, and ASL.

• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Online tax information in other languages. You can
find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t
your native language.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS
serves taxpayers with limited-English proficiency (LEP) by
offering OPI service. The OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and
every VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI Service is accessible in more than 300 languages.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with
disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call 833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can answer questions related to current and
future accessibility products and services available in alternative media formats (for example, braille-ready, large
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds, or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000, Alternative
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to
receive certain types of written correspondence in the following formats.

• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain Text File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the
available disaster tax relief.
Publication 936 (2025)

Getting tax forms and publications. Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instructions, and publications you may need. Or, you can go to
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require
signatures. You’ll have the option to submit your form(s)
online or download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans of
your documents to support your submission. Go to
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook
format. Download and view most tax publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax account.

• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax
year.

• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment
plan.

• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history
and any pending or scheduled payments.

• Access your tax records, including key data from your
most recent tax return, and transcripts.

• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax professionals.

Get a transcript of your return. With an online account,
you can access a variety of information to help you during
the filing season. You can get a transcript, review your
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional
submit an authorization request to access your individual
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit,
which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your financial account. Direct deposit also
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank
or credit union that can open an account online.

19

Reporting and resolving your tax-related identity
theft issues.

• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the ad-

• Tax-related identity theft happens when someone

• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes with cash at

steals your personal information to commit tax fraud.
Your taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by

email, text messages (including shortened links), telephone calls, or social media channels to request or
verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs),
passwords, or similar information for credit cards,
banks, or other financial accounts.

• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft

Central webpage, for information on identity theft and
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should
take.

• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are

six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return with your
SSN. To learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.

dress listed on the notice or instructions.

a participating retail store.

• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do same-day

wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/Payments for
more information about your options.

• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/

OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly installments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once
you complete the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has
been approved.

• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if

you can settle your tax debt for less than the full
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.

Ways to check on the status of your refund.

Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/Form1040X
for information and updates.

• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-

Checking the status of your amended return. Go to
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040-X amended returns.

• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.

It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed
your amended return for it to show up in our sysCAUTION tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.

vice to check your refund status.

The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid-February
for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional
CAUTION child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends paying
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information
on how to make a payment using any of the following options.

• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s
free and secure, and no sign-in is required. You can
change or cancel within two days of scheduled payment.

• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an
approved payment processor to pay online or by
phone.

• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment

when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or through a tax professional.

• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System: This is the
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.

20

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional information about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be able to use
the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information,
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040),
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP
taxpayers is part of a multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive
communications, including notices and letters, in English
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind, many questions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC.
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about
Publication 936 (2025)

most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in advance that you can get the service you need without long
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to
find the nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app,
under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate
Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS)
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS,
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under
the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We are Your Voice at the IRS.

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to resolve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then
come to TAS. Our services are free.

problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure
just isn’t working as it should.

• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit

www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help
you with common tax issues and situations, such as
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if
you get a notice from the IRS.

• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems

that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include
any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia,
and Puerto Rico. To find your local advocate’s number:

• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to
www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Taxpayer-Rights
for
more information about the rights, what they mean to you,
and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and
equitable way.

• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

A

Acquisition debt 2, 11-13
Alimony 6
Amortization:
Points 8
Appraisal fees 9
Armed forces:
Housing allowance 5
Assistance (See Tax help)
Average mortgage balance 14

B

Borrowers:
More than one 10
Seller-paid points, treatment by
buyer 9

Publication 936 (2025)

Business:
Average mortgage balance, total
amount of interest otherwise
allowable to each activity 16
Mortgage proceeds used for 10

C

Clergy:
Ministers' and military housing
allowance 5
Cooperative housing 4, 11
Cost of home or improvements 12
Credits 5

D

Date of mortgage 12
Debt
Choice to treat as not secured by
home 4

Grandfathered 2, 13
Home acquisition 2, 11
Not secured by home 4
Secured 3
Deductions 2
Home office 4
Points 8, 16
Deed preparation costs 9
Divorced taxpayers 6, 13

F

Fees:
Appraisal 9
Notaries 9
Points (See Points)
Figures (See Tables and figures)
Form 1040, Schedule A 10, 17
Form 1040, Schedule C or C-EZ 17
Form 1040, Schedule E 17
21

Form 1040, Schedule F 17
Form 1098 10
Form 8396 5

Excess 9
Funds provided less than 9
General rule 8
Main home 4
Home improvement loans 8
Married taxpayers 5
G
Seller paid 9
Military housing allowance 5
Prepaid interest 5, 10
Grandfathered debt 2, 13
Ministers' housing allowance 5
Ground rents 6
Missing children, photographs of 1 Prepayment penalties 5
Publications (See Tax help)
Mixed-use mortgages 15
H
Mortgage interest 2
Q
Cooperative housing 11
Home 2
Credit 5
Qualified homes 4
Acquisition debt 2, 11
Fully deductible interest 2
Qualified loan limit:
Construction 5
Home mortgage interest 2
Average mortgage balance 15
Cost of 12
How to report 10
Worksheet to figure (Table 1) 14
Destroyed 5
Late payment charges 5
Divided use 4, 13
R
Limits on deduction 11
Grandfathered debt 2, 13
Ministers' and military housing
Improvement loan, points 8
Redeemable ground rents 6
allowance 5
Main 4
Refinancing 8
Prepaid interest 5, 10
Office in 4
Grandfathered debt 13
Prepayment penalty 5
Qualified 4
Home acquisition debt 12
Refunds 6, 10
Renting out part of 4
Refunds 6, 10
Sale of home 5
Sale of 5
Rent:
Special situations 5
Second 4
Nonredeemable ground rents 6
Statement 10
Time-sharing arrangements 5
Redeemable ground rents 6
Where to deduct 17
Housing allowance:
Rental payments 6
Worksheet to figure (Table 1) 14
Ministers and military 5
Renting of home:
Mortgage Interest Statement 10
Part of 4
I
Mortgages:
Time-sharing arrangements 5
Assistance payments (under sec.
Repairs 12
Improvements:
235 of National Housing Act) 5
Reverse Mortgages 6
Cost of 12
Average
balance 15
Home acquisition debt 12
Date of 12
S
Points 8
Ending
early 9
Substantial 12
Sale of home 5
Late qualifying 12
Interest 2
Second home 4
Mixed-use 15
(See also Mortgage interest)
Secured debt 3
Preparation costs for note or deed
Interest rate method 15
Seller-paid points 9
of trust 9
Refunded 6, 10
Separate returns 5
Proceeds
invested in tax-exempt
Where to deduct 17
Separated taxpayers 6
securities 6
Investments:
Share of Interest 11
Proceeds used for business 10
Average mortgage balance and total
Spouses 5
Proceeds used for investment 10
amount of interest allowable 16
Statements
provided by lender 15
Qualified loan limit 14, 15
Mortgage proceeds used for 6, 10
Stock:
Refinanced 8, 12, 13
Cooperative housing 11
Reverse 6
J
Statements provided by lender 15
Joint returns 5
T
To buy, build, or improve 12
Tables and figures:
Wraparound 4
L
Deductible home mortgage interest:
Lender mortgage statements 15
Fully deductible, determination of
N
Limits:
(Figure A) 2
Nonredeemable ground rents 6
Cooperative housing, mortgage
How to figure (Table 1) 14
Notary fees 9
interest deduction 11
Mortgage to buy, build, or improve
Deductibility of points 10
home (Figure C) 12
O
Home acquisition debt 11
Points (Figure B) 6
Office in home 4
Home mortgage interest
Qualified loan limit worksheet
deduction 11
(Table 1) 14
P
Qualified loan limit 14, 15
Tax credits 5
Penalties:
Line 10 10
Tax help 17
Mortgage prepayment 5
Loans 10, 12
Tax-exempt securities:
(See also Mortgages)
Points 6-10
Mortgage proceeds invested in 6
Home improvement, points 8
Claiming deductible 16
Time-sharing arrangements 5
Qualified loan limit 14
Exception to general rule 8
22

M

Publication 936 (2025)

W

Worksheets:
Deductible home mortgage
interest 14

Publication 936 (2025)

Qualified loan limit 14
Wraparound mortgages 4

23

