Publication 4681

Canceled Debts,
Foreclosures,
Repossessions,
and
Abandonments
(for Individuals)
For use in preparing

2025 Returns

Contents
What's New

.................. 1

Reminders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Common Situations Covered in This
Publication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Chapter 1. Canceled Debts . . . . . . . . 3
Form 1099-C . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Discounts and Loan
Modifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Sales or Other Dispositions
(Such as Foreclosures and
Repossessions) . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Abandonments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Stockholder Debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Exceptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Gifts, Bequests, Devises, and
Inheritances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Student Loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Deductible Debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Price Reduced After Purchase . . . . . 6
Exclusions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Bankruptcy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Insolvency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Insolvency Worksheet . . . . . . . . . . 7
Qualified Farm Indebtedness . . . . . . 8
Qualified Real Property
Business Indebtedness . . . . . . . 9
Qualified Principal Residence
Indebtedness . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Reduction of Tax Attributes . . . . . . . .
Qualified Principal Residence
Indebtedness . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bankruptcy and Insolvency . . . . . .
Qualified Farm Indebtedness . . . . .
Qualified Real Property
Business Indebtedness . . . . . .

10
10
10
12
12

Chapter 2. Foreclosures and
Repossessions . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Worksheet for Foreclosures and
Reposessions . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Chapter 3. Abandonments

. . . . . . . 14

How To Get Tax Help . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Future Developments
For the latest information about developments
related to Pub. 4681, such as legislation
enacted after it was published, go to IRS.gov/
Pub4681.

What’s New
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English)
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español)
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文)

Nov 19, 2025

• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어)
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский)
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt)

Discharge of qualified principal residence
indebtedness after 2025. Qualified principal
residence indebtedness cannot be excluded

Publication 4681 (2025) Catalog Number 51508F
Department of the Treasury Internal Revenue Service www.irs.gov

from income for discharges completed or discharge agreements entered into after December 31, 2025.
A social security number (SSN) is required
for the exclusion from gross income of a
discharge of student loan debt after 2025.
If a student loan is discharged, in whole or in
part, after December 31, 2025, the amount of
the debt discharged on account of death or total
and permanent disability of the student may be
nontaxable. However, you will have to include
your SSN on your tax return. The SSN must be
valid for employment and must have been issued before the due date of the return.

Reminders
Discharge of qualified principal residence
indebtedness before 2026. Qualified principal residence indebtedness can be excluded
from income for discharges before January 1,
2026.
Discharge of student loan debt. If your student loan debt was discharged, in whole or in
part, the amount of debt that was discharged
may be nontaxable. See Student Loans, later.
Photographs of missing children. The Internal Revenue Service is a proud partner with the
National Center for Missing & Exploited
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing
children selected by the Center may appear in
this publication on pages that would otherwise
be blank. You can help bring these children
home by looking at the photographs and calling
800-THE-LOST (800-843-5678) if you recognize a child.

Introduction
This publication explains the federal tax treatment of canceled debts, foreclosures, repossessions, and abandonments.
Generally, if you owe a debt to someone
else and they cancel or forgive that debt for less
than its full amount, you are treated for income
tax purposes as having income and may have
to pay tax on this income.
Note: This publication generally refers to
debt that is canceled, forgiven, or discharged
for less than the full amount of the debt as “canceled debt.”
Sometimes a debt, or part of a debt, that you
don’t have to pay isn’t considered canceled
debt. These exceptions are discussed later under Exceptions.
Sometimes a canceled debt may be excluded from your income. But if you do exclude
canceled debt from income, you may be required to reduce your “tax attributes.” These exclusions and the reduction of tax attributes associated with them are discussed later under
Exclusions.
Foreclosure and repossession are remedies
that your lender may exercise if you fail to make
payments on your loan and you have previously
granted that lender a mortgage or other security
interest in some of your property. These remedies allow the lender to seize or sell the property securing the loan. When your property is
foreclosed upon or repossessed and sold, you
2

are treated as having sold the property and you
may recognize taxable gain. Whether you also
recognize income from canceled debt depends
in part on whether you are personally liable for
the debt and in part on whether the outstanding
loan balance is more than the fair market value
(FMV) of the property. Figuring your gain or loss
and income from canceled debt arising from a
foreclosure or repossession is discussed later
under Foreclosures and Repossessions.
Generally, you abandon property when you
voluntarily and permanently give up possession
and use of property you own with the intention
of ending your ownership but without passing it
on to anyone else. Figuring your gain or loss
and income from canceled debt arising from an
abandonment is discussed later under Abandonments.
Comments and suggestions. We welcome
your comments about this publication and suggestions for future editions.
You can send us comments through
IRS.gov/FormComments. Or, you can write to
the Internal Revenue Service, Tax Forms and
Publications, 1111 Constitution Ave. NW,
IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to
each comment received, we do appreciate your
feedback and will consider your comments and
suggestions as we revise our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above address.
Getting answers to your tax questions.
If you have a tax question not answered by this
publication or the How To Get Tax Help section
at the end of this publication, go to the IRS Interactive Tax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the
search feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. Go to IRS.gov/Forms to download
current and prior-year forms, instructions, and
publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and
publications. Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instructions, and publications; call 800-829-3676 to order prior-year
forms and instructions. The IRS will process
your order for forms and publications as soon
as possible. Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. You can get forms and publications faster online.

Useful Items

You may want to see:
Publication
225 Farmer’s Tax Guide
225

334 Tax Guide for Small Business (For
Individuals Who Use Schedule C)
334

523 Selling Your Home
523

525 Taxable and Nontaxable Income

908 Bankruptcy Tax Guide
908

Form (and Instructions)
982 Reduction of Tax Attributes Due to
Discharge of Indebtedness (and
Section 1082 Basis Adjustment)
982

1099-C Cancellation of Debt
1099-C

1099-DIV Dividends and Distributions
1099-DIV

3800 General Business Credit
3800

Common Situations
Covered in This
Publication
The sections of this publication that apply to you
depend on the type of debt canceled, the tax attributes you have, and whether or not you continue to own the property that was subject to the
debt. Some examples of common circumstances are provided in the following paragraphs to
help guide you through this publication. These
examples don’t cover every situation but are intended to provide general guidance for the most
common situations.
Nonbusiness credit card debt cancellation.
If you had a nonbusiness credit card debt canceled, you may be able to exclude the canceled
debt from income if the cancellation occurred in
a title 11 bankruptcy case or you were insolvent
immediately before the cancellation. You should
also read Bankruptcy or Insolvency under Exclusions in chapter 1 to see if you can exclude
the canceled debt from income under one of
those provisions. If you can exclude part or all of
the canceled debt from income, you should also
read Bankruptcy and Insolvency under Reduction of Tax Attributes in chapter 1.
Personal vehicle repossession. If you had a
personal vehicle repossessed and disposed of
by the lender during the year, you will need to
determine your gain or nondeductible loss on
the disposition. This is explained in chapter 2. If
the lender also canceled all or part of the remaining amount of the loan, you may be able to
exclude the canceled debt from income if the
cancellation occurred in a title 11 bankruptcy
case or you were insolvent immediately before
the cancellation. You should read Bankruptcy or
Insolvency under Exclusions in chapter 1 to see
if you can exclude the canceled debt from income under one of those provisions. If you can
exclude part or all of the canceled debt from income, you should also read Bankruptcy and Insolvency under Reduction of Tax Attributes in
chapter 1.
Main home foreclosure or abandonment. If
a lender foreclosed on your main home during
the year, you will need to determine your gain or
loss on the foreclosure. Foreclosures are explained in chapter 2 and abandonments are explained in chapter 3.

525

542 Corporations
542

544 Sales and Other Dispositions of
Assets
544

551 Basis of Assets
551

Main home loan modification (workout
agreement). If a lender agreed to a mortgage
loan modification (a “workout”) in 2024 that included a reduction in the principal balance of
the loan in 2025, you should read Qualified
Publication 4681 (2025)

Principal Residence Indebtedness under Exclusions in chapter 1 to see if you can exclude part
or all of the canceled debt from income. If you
can exclude part or all of the canceled debt
from income, you should also read Qualified
Principal Residence Indebtedness under Reduction of Tax Attributes in chapter 1.

1.
Canceled Debts
This chapter discusses the tax treatment of
canceled debts.

General Rules
Generally, if a debt for which you are personally
liable is forgiven or discharged for less than the
full amount owed, the debt is considered canceled in whatever amount it remained unpaid.
There are exceptions to this rule, discussed under Exceptions, later. Generally, you must include the canceled debt in your income. However, you may be able to exclude the canceled
debt. See Exclusions, later.
Example. You owed your friend $1,000.
Your friend agreed to accept and you paid $400
in satisfaction of the entire debt. You have canceled debt of $600.
Example. You owed your friend $1,000. You
both agreed that you would provide your friend
with services (instead of money) in full satisfaction of the debt. You don’t have canceled debt.
Instead, you have income from services.
A debt includes any indebtedness:

• For which you are liable, or
• Subject to which you hold property.
Debt for which you are personally liable is recourse debt. All other debt is nonrecourse debt.
If you aren’t personally liable for the debt,
you don’t have ordinary income from the cancellation of debt unless you retain the collateral
and either:
• The lender offers a discount for the early
payment of the debt, or
• The lender agrees to a loan modification
that results in the reduction of the principal
balance of the debt.
See Discounts and Loan Modifications, later.
However, upon the disposition of the property securing a nonrecourse debt, the amount
realized includes the entire unpaid amount of
the debt, not just the FMV of the property. As a
result, you may realize a gain or loss if the outstanding debt immediately before the disposition is more or less than your adjusted basis in
the property. For more details on figuring your
gain or loss, see chapter 2 of this publication or
see Pub. 544.
Publication 4681 (2025)

There are several exceptions and exclusions
that may result in part or all of a canceled debt
being nontaxable. See Exceptions and Exclusions, later. You must report any taxable canceled debt as ordinary income on:
• Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8c, if the debt
is a nonbusiness debt;
• Schedule C (Form 1040), line 6, if the debt
is related to a nonfarm sole proprietorship;
• Schedule E (Form 1040), line 3, if the debt
is related to nonfarm rental of real property;
• Form 4835, line 6, if the debt is related to a
farm rental activity for which you use Form
4835 to report farm rental income based
on crops or livestock produced by a tenant;
or
• Schedule F (Form 1040), line 8, if the debt
is farm debt and you are a farmer.

Form 1099-C
If you receive a Form 1099-C, that means an
applicable entity has reported an identifiable
event to the IRS regarding a debt you owe. For
information on the reasons an applicable entity
files Form 1099-C, see Identifiable event codes,
later. Unless you meet one of the exceptions or
exclusions discussed later, this canceled debt is
ordinary income and must be reported on the
appropriate form discussed above.
If you had a student loan that was disTIP charged after December 31, 2020, and
the amount of the discharged loan is
nontaxable, you won’t receive a Form 1099-C
from the lender or servicer of your student loan.
An applicable entity includes the following.
1. A financial institution.
2. A credit union.
3. Any of the following, its successor, or subunit of one of the following.
a. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).
b. The Resolution Trust Corporation
(RTC).
c. The National Credit Union Administration (NCUA).
d. Any other federal executive agency,
including government corporations,
any military department, the U.S.
Postal Service, or the Postal Rate
Commission.
4. A corporate subsidiary of a financial institution or credit union (if the affiliation subjects the subsidiary to federal or state regulation).
5. A federal government agency, including a
department, an agency, a court or court
administrative office, or a judicial or legislative instrumentality.

Identifiable event codes. Box 6 of Form
1099-C should indicate the reason the creditor
filed this form. The codes shown in box 6 are
explained next. Also, see the chart after the explanation for a quick reference guide for the codes used in box 6.
Code A—Bankruptcy. Code A is used to
identify cancellation of debt as a result of a title
11 bankruptcy case. See Bankruptcy, later.
Code B—Other judicial debt relief. Code
B is used to identify cancellation of debt as a result of a receivership, foreclosure, or similar federal or state court proceeding other than bankruptcy.
Code C—Statute of limitations or expiration of deficiency period. Code C is used to
identify cancellation of debt either when the
statute of limitations for collecting the debt expires or when the statutory period for filing a
claim or beginning a deficiency judgment proceeding expires. In the case of the expiration of
a statute of limitations, an identifiable event occurs only if and when your affirmative defense
of the statute of limitations is upheld in a final
judgment or decision in a judicial proceeding,
and the period for appealing the judgment or
decision has expired.
Code D—Foreclosure election. Code D is
used to identify cancellation of debt when the
creditor elects foreclosure remedies that statutorily end or bar the creditor’s right to pursue
collection of the debt. This event applies to a
mortgage lender or holder who is barred from
pursuing debt collection after a power of sale in
the mortgage or deed of trust is exercised.
Code E—Debt relief from probate or similar proceeding. Code E is used to identify
cancellation of debt as a result of a probate
court or similar legal proceeding.
Code F—By agreement. Code F is used to
identify cancellation of debt as a result of an
agreement between the creditor and the debtor
to cancel the debt at less than full consideration.
Code G—Decision or policy to discontinue collection. Code G is used to identify
cancellation of debt as a result of a decision or
a defined policy of the creditor to discontinue
collection activity and cancel the debt. For purposes of this identifiable event, a defined policy
includes both a written policy and the creditor’s
established business practice.
Code H—Other actual discharge before
identifiable event. Code H is used to identify
an actual cancellation of debt that occurs before
any of the identifiable events described in codes A through G.

6. Any organization of which lending money
is a significant trade or business.
For more information on the applicable entities
that must file a Form 1099-C, see the Instructions for Forms 1099-A and 1099-C, available at
irs.gov/instructions/i1099ac.
Chapter 1

Canceled Debts

3

Form 1099-C Reference Guide for
Box 6 Identifiable Event Codes
A Bankruptcy
B Other judicial debt relief
C Statute of limitations or expiration of deficiency
period
D Foreclosure election
E Debt relief from probate or similar proceeding
F By agreement
G Decision or policy to discontinue collection
H Other actual discharge before identifiable event

Even if you didn’t receive a Form
1099-C, you must report canceled debt
CAUTION as gross income on your tax return unless one of the exceptions or exclusions described later applies.

!

Amount of canceled debt. The amount in
box 2 of Form 1099-C may represent some or
all of the debt that has been canceled. The
amount in box 2 will include principal and may
include interest and other nonprincipal amounts
(such as fees or penalties). Unless you meet
one of the exceptions or exclusions discussed
later, the amount of the debt that has been canceled is ordinary income and must be reported
on the appropriate form, as discussed earlier.
Interest included in canceled debt. If any interest is included in the amount of canceled
debt in box 2, it will be shown in box 3. Whether
the interest portion of the canceled debt must
be included in your income depends on whether
the interest would be deductible if you paid it.
See Deductible Debt under Exceptions, later.
Persons who each receive a Form 1099-C
showing the full amount of debt. If you and
another person were jointly and severally liable
for a canceled debt, each of you may get a
Form 1099-C showing the entire amount of the
canceled debt. However, you may not have to
report that entire amount as income. The
amount, if any, you must report depends on all
the facts and circumstances, including:
• State law,
• The amount of debt proceeds each person
received,
• How much of any interest deduction from
the debt was claimed by each person,
• How much of the basis of any co-owned
property bought with the debt proceeds
was allocated to each co-owner, and
• Whether the canceled debt qualifies for
any of the exceptions or exclusions described in this publication.
See Example 3 under Insolvency, later.

Discounts and Loan
Modifications
If a lender discounts (reduces) the principal balance of a loan because you pay it off early, or
agrees to a loan modification (a “workout”) that
includes a reduction in the principal balance of
a loan, the amount of the discount or the
amount of principal reduction is canceled debt.
However, if the debt is nonrecourse and you
didn’t retain the collateral, you don’t have cancellation of debt income. The amount of the
canceled debt must be included in income
4

unless one of the exceptions or exclusions described later applies. For more details, see Exceptions and Exclusions, later.

Sales or Other Dispositions
(Such as Foreclosures and
Repossessions)
Recourse debt. If you owned property that
was subject to a recourse debt in excess of the
FMV of the property, the lender’s foreclosure or
repossession of the property is treated as a sale
or disposition of the property by you and may
result in your realization of gain or loss. The
gain or loss on the disposition of the property is
measured by the difference between the FMV
of the property at the time of the disposition and
your adjusted basis (usually your cost) in the
property. The character of the gain or loss (such
as ordinary or capital) is determined by the
character of the property. If the lender forgives
all or part of the amount of the debt in excess of
the FMV of the property, the cancellation of the
excess debt may result in ordinary income. The
ordinary income from the cancellation of debt
(the excess of the canceled debt over the FMV
of the property) must be included in your gross
income reported on your tax return unless one
of the exceptions or exclusions described later
applies. For more details, see Exceptions and
Exclusions, later.
Nonrecourse debt. If you owned property that
was subject to a nonrecourse debt in excess of
the FMV of the property, the lender’s foreclosure
on the property doesn’t result in ordinary income from the cancellation of debt. The entire
amount of the nonrecourse debt is treated as an
amount realized on the disposition of the property. The gain or loss on the disposition of the
property is measured by the difference between
the total amount realized (the entire amount of
the nonrecourse debt plus the amount of cash
and the FMV of any property received) and your
adjusted basis in the property. The character of
the gain or loss is determined by the character
of the property.
More information. See chapter 2 of this publication and Pubs. 523, 544, and 551 for more
details.

Abandonments
Recourse debt. If you abandon property that
secures a debt for which you are personally liable (recourse debt) and the debt is canceled,
you will realize ordinary income equal to the
canceled debt. You must report this income on
your tax return unless one of the exceptions or
exclusions described later applies. For more details, see Exceptions and Exclusions, later. This
income is separate from any amount realized
from the abandonment of the property. For more
details, see chapter 3.
Nonrecourse debt. If you abandon property
that secures a debt for which you aren’t personally liable (nonrecourse debt), you may realize
gain or loss but won’t have cancellation of indebtedness income.

Stockholder Debt
If you are a stockholder in a corporation and the
corporation cancels or forgives your debt to it,
the canceled debt is a constructive distribution.
For more information, see Pub. 542.

Exceptions
There are several exceptions to the requirement
that you include canceled debt in income.
These exceptions apply before the exclusions
discussed later and don’t require you to reduce
your tax attributes.

Gifts, Bequests, Devises,
and Inheritances
In most cases, you don’t have income from canceled debt if the debt is canceled as a gift, bequest, devise, or inheritance.

Student Loans
Generally, if you are responsible for making loan
payments, and the loan is canceled or repaid by
someone else, you must include the amount
that was canceled or paid on your behalf in your
gross income for tax purposes. However, in certain circumstances, you may be able to exclude
amounts from gross income as a result of the
cancellation or repayment of certain student
loans. These exclusions are for:
• Student loan cancellation due to meeting
certain work requirements;
• Student loan repayment assistance programs;
• Cancellation due to death or total and permanent disability of the student; or
• Cancellation of certain other loans after
December 31, 2020, and before January 1,
2026.
Exclusion for student loan cancellation due
to meeting certain work requirements. If
your student loan is canceled in part or in whole
in 2025 due to meeting certain work requirements, you may not have to include the canceled debt in your income. To qualify for this
work-related exclusion, your loan must have
been made by a qualified lender to assist you in
attending an eligible educational organization
described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii). In addition,
the cancellation must be pursuant to a provision
in the student loan that all or part of the debt will
be canceled if you work:
• For a certain period of time,

• In certain professions, and
• For any of a broad class of employers.

The cancellation of your loan won’t
qualify for tax-free treatment if it was
CAUTION made by an educational organization or
tax-exempt section 501(c)(3) organization and
was canceled because of the services you performed for either organization. See Exception,
later.

!

Educational organization described in
section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii). This is an educational organization that maintains a regular
Publication 4681 (2025)

faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled body of students in attendance at
the place where it carries on its educational activities.
Qualified lenders. These include the following.
1. The United States, or an instrumentality or
agency thereof.
2. A state or territory of the United States; or
the District of Columbia; or any political
subdivision thereof.
3. A public benefit corporation that is tax-exempt under section 501(c)(3); and that
has assumed control of a state, county, or
municipal hospital; and whose employees
are considered public employees under
state law.
4. An educational organization described in
section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii), if the loan is
made:
a. As part of an agreement with an entity
described in (1), (2), or (3) under
which the funds to make the loan were
provided to the educational organization; or
b. Under a program of the educational
organization that is designed to encourage its students to serve in occupations with unmet needs or in areas
with unmet needs where services provided by the students (or former students) are for or under the direction of
a governmental unit or a tax-exempt
section 501(c)(3) organization.
Student loan repayment assistance. Student loan repayments made to you are tax free
if you received them for any of the following.
• The National Health Service Corps
(NHSC) Loan Repayment Program.
• A state education loan repayment program
eligible for funds under the Public Health
Service Act.
• Any other state loan repayment or loan forgiveness program that is intended to provide for the increased availability of health
services in underserved or health professional shortage areas (as determined by
such state).
You can’t deduct the interest you paid
on a student loan to the extent payCAUTION ments were made through your participation in any of the above programs.

!

Cancellation due to death or total and permanent disability of the student. If a student
loan was discharged, the amount of the debt
discharged on account of death or total and
permanent disability of the student may be nontaxable. If the student loan is discharged after
2025, you will have to include your SSN on your
tax return. The SSN must be valid for employment and must have been issued before the
due date of the return.
Special rule for student loan discharges for
2021 through 2025. The American Rescue
Plan Act of 2021 modified the treatment of student loan forgiveness for discharges in 2021
through 2025. Generally, if you are responsible
Publication 4681 (2025)

for making loan payments, and the loan is canceled or repaid by someone else, you must include the amount that was canceled or paid on
your behalf in your gross income for tax purposes. However, in certain circumstances, you
may be able to exclude this amount from gross
income if the loan was one of the following.
• A loan for postsecondary educational expenses.
• A private education loan.
• A loan from an educational organization
described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii).
• A loan from an organization exempt from
tax under section 501(a) to refinance a student loan.
Loan for postsecondary educational expenses. This is any loan provided expressly for
postsecondary education, regardless of
whether provided through the educational organization or directly to the borrower, if such
loan was made, insured, or guaranteed by one
of the following.
• The United States, or an instrumentality or
agency thereof.
• A state or territory of the United States; or
the District of Columbia; or any political
subdivision thereof.
• An eligible educational organization.
Eligible educational organization. An eligible educational organization is generally any
accredited public, nonprofit, or proprietary (privately owned profit-making) college, university,
vocational school, or other postsecondary educational organization. Also, the organization
must be eligible to participate in a student aid
program administered by the U.S. Department
of Education.
An eligible educational organization also includes certain educational organizations located outside the United States that are eligible to
participate in a student aid program administered by the U.S. Department of Education.
The educational organization should

TIP be able to tell you if it is an eligible educational organization.

• Any other person engaged in the business
of soliciting, making, or extending private
education loans.

The cancellation of your loan won’t
qualify for tax-free treatment if it is canCAUTION celed because of services you performed for the private educational lender that
made the loan or other organization that provided the funds.

!

Loan from an educational organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii). This is
any loan made by the organization if the loan is
made:
• As part of an agreement with an entity described earlier under which the funds to
make the loan were provided to the educational organization; or
• Under a program of the educational organization that is designed to encourage its
students to serve in occupations with unmet needs or in areas with unmet needs
where the services provided by the students (or former students) are for or under
the direction of a governmental unit or a
tax-exempt section 501(c)(3) organization.
Educational organization described in section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii). This is an educational
organization that maintains a regular faculty and
curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled
body of students in attendance at the place
where it carries on its educational activities.
The cancellation of your loan won’t
qualify for tax-free treatment if it was
CAUTION made by an educational organization, a
tax-exempt section 501(c)(3) organization, or a
private education lender (as defined in section
140(a)(7) of the Truth in Lending Act) and was
canceled because of the services you performed for either such organization or private
education lender. See Exception, later.

!

Section 501(c)(3) organization. This is
any corporation, community chest, fund, or
foundation organized and operated exclusively
for one or more of the following purposes.
• Charitable.
• Religious.
• Educational.
• Scientific.
• Literary.
• Testing for public safety.
• Fostering national or international amateur
sports competition (but only if none of its
activities involve providing athletic facilities
or equipment).
• The prevention of cruelty to children or animals.

Private education loan. A private education
loan is a loan provided by a private educational
lender that:
• Is not made, insured, or guaranteed under
Title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965; and
• Is issued expressly for postsecondary educational expenses to a borrower, regardless of whether the loan is provided
through the educational organization that
the student attends or directly to the borrower from the private educational lender.
A private education loan does not include
an extension of credit under an open end
consumer credit plan, a reverse mortgage
transaction, a residential mortgage transaction, or any other loan that is secured by
real property or a dwelling.

Exception. In most cases, the cancellation
of a student loan made by an educational organization because of services you performed
for that organization or another organization that
provided the funds for the loan must be included in gross income on your tax return.

Private educational lender. A private educational lender is one of the following.
• A financial institution that solicits, makes,
or extends private education loans.
• A federal credit union that solicits, makes,
or extends private education loans.

Refinanced loan. If you refinanced a student loan with another loan from an eligible educational organization or a tax-exempt organization, that loan may also be considered as
made by a qualified lender. The refinanced loan
is considered made by a qualified lender if it’s
5

made under a program of the refinancing organization that is designed to encourage students
to serve in occupations with unmet needs or in
areas with unmet needs where the services required of the students are for or under the direction of a governmental unit or a tax-exempt section 501(c)(3) organization.

Deductible Debt
If you use the cash method of accounting, you
don’t realize income from the cancellation of
debt if the payment of the debt would have been
a deductible expense. This exception applies
before the price reduction exception discussed
next.
Example. In December 2024, you get accounting services for your farm on credit. In
early 2025, you have trouble paying your farm
debts and your accountant forgives part of the
amount you owe for the accounting services.
How you treat the canceled debt depends on
your method of accounting.
• Cash method. You don’t include the canceled debt in income because payment of
the debt would have been deductible as a
business expense in 2025.
• Accrual method. Unless another exception
or exclusion applies, you must include the
canceled debt in ordinary income because
the expense was deductible in 2024 when
you incurred the debt.

Price Reduced After
Purchase
If debt you owe the seller for the purchase of
property is reduced by the seller at a time when
you aren’t insolvent and the reduction doesn’t
occur in a title 11 bankruptcy case, the reduction doesn’t result in cancellation of debt income. However, you must reduce your basis in
the property by the amount of the reduction of
your debt to the seller. The rules that apply to
bankruptcy and insolvency are explained in Exclusions next.

Exclusions
After you have applied any exceptions to the
general rule that a canceled debt is included in
your income, there are several reasons why you
might still be able to exclude a canceled debt
from your income. These exclusions are explained next. If a canceled debt is excluded
from your income, it is nontaxable. In most cases, however, if you exclude canceled debt from
income under one of these provisions, you must
also reduce your tax attributes (certain credits,
losses, and basis of assets) as explained later
under Reduction of Tax Attributes.

Bankruptcy
Debt canceled in a title 11 bankruptcy case isn’t
included in your income. A title 11 bankruptcy
case is a case under title 11 of the United
States Code (including all chapters in title 11
such as chapters 7, 11, and 13). You must be a
debtor under the jurisdiction of the court and the
6

cancellation of the debt must be granted by the
court or occur as a result of a plan approved by
the court.
You don’t qualify for the bankruptcy exclusion by being an owner of, or a partner in a partnership that owns, a grantor trust or disregarded
entity that is a debtor in a title 11 bankruptcy
case. You must be a debtor in a title 11 bankruptcy case to qualify for this exclusion.
How to report the bankruptcy exclusion. To
show that your debt was canceled in a bankruptcy case and is excluded from income, attach Form 982 to your federal income tax return
and check the box on line 1a. Lines 1b through
1e don’t apply to a cancellation that occurs in a
title 11 bankruptcy case. Enter the total amount
of debt canceled in your title 11 bankruptcy
case on line 2. You must also reduce your tax
attributes in Part II of Form 982, as explained
under Reduction of Tax Attributes, later.

Insolvency
Don’t include a canceled debt in income to the
extent that you were insolvent immediately before the cancellation. You don’t qualify for the insolvency exclusion by being an owner of, or a
partner in a partnership that owns, a grantor
trust or disregarded entity that is insolvent. You
must be insolvent to qualify for this exclusion.
You were insolvent immediately before the cancellation to the extent that the total of all of your
liabilities was more than the FMV of all of your
assets immediately before the cancellation. For
purposes of determining insolvency, assets include the value of everything you own (including
assets that serve as collateral for debt and exempt assets, which are beyond the reach of
your creditors under the law, such as your interest in a pension plan and the value of your retirement account). Liabilities include:
• The entire amount of recourse debt;
• The amount of nonrecourse debt that isn’t
in excess of the FMV of the property that is
security for the debt; and
• The amount of nonrecourse debt in excess
of the FMV of the property subject to the
nonrecourse debt, to the extent nonrecourse debt in excess of the FMV of the
property subject to the debt is forgiven.
You can use the Insolvency Worksheet

TIP to help calculate the extent that you

were insolvent immediately before the
cancellation.
Other exclusions must be applied before
the insolvency exclusion. This exclusion
doesn’t apply to a cancellation of debt that occurs in a title 11 bankruptcy case. It also doesn’t
apply if the debt is qualified principal residence
indebtedness (defined in this section under
Qualified Principal Residence Indebtedness,
later) unless you elect to apply the insolvency
exclusion instead of the qualified principal residence indebtedness exclusion.
How to report the insolvency exclusion. To
show that you are excluding canceled debt from
income under the insolvency exclusion, attach
Form 982 to your federal income tax return and
check the box on line 1b. On line 2, include the

smaller of the amount of the debt canceled or
the amount by which you were insolvent immediately before the cancellation. You can use the
Insolvency Worksheet to help calculate the extent that you were insolvent immediately before
the cancellation. You must also reduce your tax
attributes in Part II of Form 982, as explained
under Reduction of Tax Attributes, later.
Example 1—amount of insolvency more
than canceled debt. In 2025, you were released from an obligation to pay a personal
credit card debt in the amount of $5,000. You
received a 2025 Form 1099-C from the credit
card lender showing the entire amount of discharged debt of $5,000 in box 2. None of the
exceptions to the general rule that canceled
debt is included in income apply. You use the Insolvency Worksheet to determine that the total
liabilities immediately before the cancellation
were $15,000 and the FMV of the total assets
immediately before the cancellation was
$7,000. This means that immediately before the
cancellation, you were insolvent to the extent of
$8,000 ($15,000 total liabilities minus $7,000
FMV of the total assets). Because the amount
by which you were insolvent immediately before
the cancellation was more than the amount of
debt canceled, you can exclude the entire
$5,000 canceled debt from income.
When completing the tax return, you check
the box on line 1b of Form 982 and enter $5,000
on line 2. You complete Part II to reduce the tax
attributes, as explained under Reduction of Tax
Attributes, later. You don’t include any of the
$5,000 canceled debt on Schedule 1 (Form
1040), line 8c. None of the canceled debt is included in income.
Example 2—amount of insolvency less
than canceled debt. The facts are the same
as in Example 1, except that your total liabilities
immediately before the cancellation were
$10,000 and the FMV of the total assets immediately before the cancellation was $7,000. In
this case, you are insolvent to the extent of
$3,000 ($10,000 total liabilities minus $7,000
FMV of the total assets) immediately before the
cancellation. Because the amount of the canceled debt was more than the amount by which
you were insolvent immediately before the cancellation, you can exclude only $3,000 of the
$5,000 canceled debt from income under the
insolvency exclusion.
You check the box on line 1b of Form 982
and include $3,000 on line 2. Also, you complete Part II to reduce the tax attributes, as explained under Reduction of Tax Attributes, later.
Additionally, you must include $2,000 of canceled debt on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8c
(unless another exclusion applies).
Example 3—joint debt and separate returns. In 2025, you and your spouse were released from an obligation to pay a debt of
$10,000 for which you were jointly and severally
liable. None of the exceptions to the general
rule that canceled debt is included in income
apply. The debt (originally $12,000) was incurred to finance your purchase of a $9,000 motorcycle and your spouse’s purchase of a laptop
computer and software for personal use for
$3,000. You each received a 2025 Form 1099-C
from the bank showing the entire canceled debt
Publication 4681 (2025)

Insolvency Worksheet

Keep for Your Records

Date debt was canceled (mm/dd/yy)
Part I. Total liabilities immediately before the cancellation (don’t include the same liability in more than one category)
Amount Owed
Immediately Before the
Cancellation

Liabilities (debts)
1.

Credit card debt

2.

Mortgage(s) on real property (including first and second mortgages and home equity loans) (mortgage(s) can
be on main home, any additional home, or property held for investment or used in a trade or business)
$

$

3.

Car and other vehicle loans

$

4.

Medical bills owed

$

5.

Student loans

$

6.

Accrued or past-due mortgage interest

$

7.

Accrued or past-due real estate taxes

$

8.

Accrued or past-due utilities (water, gas, electric, etc.)

$

9.

Accrued or past-due childcare costs

$

10.

Federal or state income taxes remaining due (for prior tax years)

$

11.

Judgments

$

12.

Business debts (including those owed as a sole proprietor or partner)

$

13.

Margin debt on stocks and other debt to purchase or secured by investment assets other than real property

$

14.

Other liabilities (debts) not included above

$

15.

Total liabilities immediately before the cancellation. Add lines 1 through 14.

$

Part II. Fair market value (FMV) of assets owned immediately before the cancellation (don’t include the FMV of the same asset in more than one
category)
FMV Immediately Before
the Cancellation

Assets
16.

Cash and bank account balances

$

17.

Real property, including the value of land (can be main home, any additional home, or property held for
investment or used in a trade or business)

$

18.

Cars and other vehicles

$

19.

Computers

$

20.

Household goods and furnishings (for example, appliances, electronics, furniture, etc.)

$

21.

Tools

$

22.

Jewelry

$

23.

Clothing

$

24.

Books

$

25.

Stocks and bonds

$

26.

Investments in coins, stamps, paintings, or other collectibles

$

27.

Firearms, sports, photographic, and other hobby equipment

$

28.

Interest in retirement accounts (IRA accounts, 401(k) accounts, and other retirement accounts)

$

29.

Interest in a pension plan

$

30.

Interest in education accounts

$

31.

Cash value of life insurance

$

32.

Security deposits with landlords, utilities, and others

$

33.

Interests in partnerships

$

34.

Value of investment in a business

$

35.

Other investments (for example, annuity contracts, guaranteed investment contracts, mutual funds,
commodity accounts, interests in hedge funds, and options)

$

36.

Other assets not included above

$

37.

FMV of total assets immediately before the cancellation. Add lines 16 through 36.

$

Part III. Insolvency
38.

Amount of insolvency. Subtract line 37 from line 15. If zero or less, you aren’t insolvent.

Publication 4681 (2025)

$

7

of $10,000 in box 2. Based on the use of the
loan proceeds, you both agreed that you were
responsible for 75% of the debt and your
spouse was responsible for the remaining 25%.
Therefore, your share of the debt is $7,500
(75% of $10,000) and your spouse’s share is
$2,500 (25% of $10,000). By completing the Insolvency Worksheet, you determine that, immediately before the cancellation of the debt, you
were insolvent to the extent of $5,000 ($15,000
total liabilities minus $10,000 FMV of the total
assets). You can exclude $5,000 of the $7,500
canceled debt. Your spouse completes a separate Insolvency Worksheet and determines your
spouse was insolvent to the extent of $4,000
($9,000 total liabilities minus $5,000 FMV of the
total assets). Your spouse can exclude the entire canceled debt of $2,500.
When completing the separate tax return,
you check the box on line 1b of Form 982 and
enter $5,000 on line 2. You complete Part II to
reduce the tax attributes, as explained under
Reduction of Tax Attributes, later. You must include the remaining $2,500 (your $7,500 share
of the canceled debt minus the $5,000 extent to
which you were insolvent) of canceled debt on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8c (unless another exclusion applies).
When completing the return, your spouse
checks the box on line 1b of Form 982 and enters $2,500 on line 2. Your spouse completes
Part II to reduce the tax attributes, as explained
under Reduction of Tax Attributes, later. Your
spouse doesn’t include any of the canceled
debt on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8c. None
of the canceled debt has to be included in income.

debt in a title 11 bankruptcy case or to the extent you were insolvent immediately before the
cancellation. If qualified farm debt is canceled in
a title 11 case, you must apply the bankruptcy
exclusion rather than the exclusion for canceled
qualified farm debt. If you were insolvent immediately before the cancellation of qualified farm
debt, you must apply the insolvency exclusion
before applying the exclusion for canceled
qualified farm debt.
Exclusion limit. The amount of canceled
qualified farm debt you can exclude from income under this exclusion is limited. It can’t be
more than the sum of:
1. Your adjusted tax attributes, and
2. The total adjusted basis of qualified property you held at the beginning of 2026.
If you excluded canceled debt under the insolvency exclusion, the adjusted basis of any
qualified property and adjusted tax attributes
are determined after any reduction of tax attributes required under the insolvency exclusion.
Any canceled qualified farm debt that is
more than this limit must be included in your income.
For more information about the basis of
property, see Pub. 551.
Adjusted tax attributes. Adjusted tax attributes means the sum of the following items.
1. Any net operating loss (NOL) for 2025 and
any NOL carryover to 2025.
2. Any net capital loss for 2025 and any capital loss carryover to 2025.

Qualified Farm Indebtedness

3. Any passive activity loss carryover from
2025.

You can exclude canceled farm debt from income on your 2025 return if all of the following
apply.
• The debt was incurred directly in connection with your operation of the trade or
business of farming.
• 50% or more of your total gross receipts for
2022, 2023, and 2024 were from the trade
or business of farming.
• The cancellation was made by a qualified
person. A qualified person is an individual,
organization, partnership, association, corporation, or other person who is actively
and regularly engaged in the business of
lending money. A qualified person also includes any federal, state, or local government or agency or instrumentality of one of
those governments. For example, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture is a qualified
person. A qualified person can’t be related
to you, can’t be the person from whom you
acquired the property (or a person related
to this person), and can’t be a person who
receives a fee due to your investment in
the property (or a person related to this
person).

4. Three times the sum of any:

For the definition of the term “related person,”
see Related persons under At-Risk Amounts in
Pub. 925, Passive Activity and At-Risk Rules.
Other exclusions must be applied before
the qualified farm indebtedness exclusion.
This exclusion doesn’t apply to a cancellation of
8

a. General business credit carryover to
or from 2025,
b. Minimum tax credit available as of the
beginning of 2026,
c. Foreign tax credit carryover to or from
2025, and
d. Passive activity credit carryover from
2025.
Qualified property. This is any property
you use or hold for use in your trade or business
or for the production of income.
How to report the qualified farm indebtedness exclusion. To show that all or part of your
canceled debt is excluded from income because it is qualified farm debt, check the box on
line 1c of Form 982 and attach it to your Form
1040 or 1040-SR. On line 2 of Form 982, include the amount of the qualified farm debt canceled, but not more than the exclusion limit (explained earlier). You must also reduce your tax
attributes in Part II of Form 982, as explained
under Reduction of Tax Attributes, later.
Example 1—only qualified farm indebtedness exclusion applies. In 2025, you were
released from an obligation to pay a $10,000
debt that was incurred directly in connection
with the trade or business of farming. You received a Form 1099-C from the qualified lender

showing discharged debt of $10,000 in box 2.
For 2022, 2023, and 2024 tax years, at least
50% of your total gross receipts were from the
trade or business of farming. Your adjusted tax
attributes are $5,000 and you have $3,000 total
adjusted basis in qualified property at the beginning of 2026. You had no other debt canceled
during 2025 and no other exception or exclusion
relating to canceled debt income applies.
You can exclude $8,000 ($5,000 of adjusted
tax attributes plus $3,000 total adjusted basis in
qualified property at the beginning of 2026) of
the $10,000 canceled debt from income. You
check the box on line 1c of Form 982 and enter
$8,000 on line 2. Also, you complete Part II to
reduce the tax attributes, as explained under
Reduction of Tax Attributes, later. The remaining $2,000 of canceled qualified farm debt is included in your income on Schedule F (Form
1040), line 8.
Example 2—both insolvency and qualified farm indebtedness exclusions apply.
On March 2, 2025, you were released from an
obligation to pay a $10,000 business credit card
debt that was used directly in connection with a
farming business. For 2022, 2023, and 2024 tax
years, at least 50% of your total gross receipts
were from the trade or business of farming. You
received a 2025 Form 1099-C from the qualified
lender showing discharged debt of $10,000 in
box 2. The FMV of your total assets on March 2,
2025 (immediately before the cancellation of
the credit card debt), was $7,000 and your total
liabilities at that time were $11,000. Your adjusted tax attributes (a 2025 NOL) are $7,000 and
you have $4,000 total adjusted basis in qualified
property at the beginning of 2026.
You qualify to exclude $4,000 of the canceled debt under the insolvency exclusion because you are insolvent to the extent of $4,000
immediately before the cancellation ($11,000
total liabilities minus $7,000 FMV of total assets). You must reduce the tax attributes under
the insolvency rules before applying the rules
for qualified farm debt.
You also qualify to exclude the remaining
$6,000 of canceled qualified farm debt. The
limit on your exclusion from income of canceled
qualified farm debt is $7,000, the sum of:
1. Your adjusted tax attributes of $3,000 (the
$7,000 NOL minus the $4,000 reduction of
tax attributes required because of the
$4,000 exclusion of canceled debt under
the insolvency exclusion), and
2. Your total adjusted basis of $4,000 in
qualified property held at the beginning of
2026.
You check the boxes on lines 1b and 1c of
Form 982 and enter $10,000 on line 2. You
complete Part II to reduce the tax attributes, as
explained under Reduction of Tax Attributes,
later. You don’t include any of the canceled debt
in income.
Example 3—no qualified farm indebtedness exclusion when insolvent to the extent
of canceled debt. The facts are the same as
in Example 2, except that immediately before
the cancellation, you were insolvent to the extent of the full $10,000 canceled debt. Because
the exclusion for qualified farm debt doesn’t
Publication 4681 (2025)

apply to the extent that your insolvency (immediately before the cancellation) was equal to the
full amount of the canceled debt, you check
only the box on line 1b of Form 982 and enter
$10,000 on line 2. You complete Part II to reduce the tax attributes based on the insolvency
exclusion, as explained under Reduction of Tax
Attributes, later. You don’t include any of the
canceled debt in income.

Qualified Real Property
Business Indebtedness
You can elect to exclude canceled qualified real
property business indebtedness from income.
Qualified real property business indebtedness
is debt (other than qualified farm debt) that
meets all of the following conditions.
1. It was incurred or assumed in connection
with real property used in a trade or business. Real property used in a trade or
business doesn’t include real property developed and held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business.
2. It is secured by that real property. As long
as certain other requirements are met, indebtedness that is secured by 100% of the
ownership interest in a disregarded entity
holding real property will be treated as indebtedness that is secured by real property. For more information, and for the requirements that must be met, see
Revenue Procedure 2014-20, available at
IRS.gov/irb/2014-09_IRB#RP-2014-20.
3. It was incurred or assumed:
a. Before 1993; or
b. After 1992, if the debt is either (i)
qualified acquisition indebtedness
(defined next), or (ii) debt incurred to
refinance qualified real property business debt incurred or assumed before
1993 (but only to the extent the
amount of such debt doesn’t exceed
the amount of debt being refinanced).
4. It is debt to which you elect to apply these
rules.
Residential rental property generally

TIP qualifies as real property used in a

trade or business unless you also use
the dwelling as a home. For more information,
see Dwelling Unit Used as a Home in Pub. 527.
Definition of qualified acquisition indebtedness. Qualified acquisition indebtedness is:
• Debt incurred or assumed to acquire, construct, reconstruct, or substantially improve
real property that is used in a trade or business and secures the debt; or
• Debt resulting from the refinancing of qualified acquisition indebtedness, to the extent
the amount of the debt doesn’t exceed the
amount of debt being refinanced.

Other exclusions must be applied before
the qualified real property business indebtedness exclusion. This exclusion doesn’t apply to a cancellation of debt in a title 11 bankruptcy case or to the extent you were insolvent
immediately before the cancellation. If qualified
real property business debt is canceled in a title
Publication 4681 (2025)

11 bankruptcy case, you must apply the bankruptcy exclusion rather than the exclusion for
canceled qualified real property business debt.
If you were insolvent immediately before the
cancellation of qualified real property business
debt, you must apply the insolvency exclusion
before applying the exclusion for canceled
qualified real property business debt.
Exclusion limit. The amount of canceled
qualified real property business debt you can
exclude from income under this exclusion has
two limits. The amount you can exclude can’t be
more than either:
1. The excess (if any) of the outstanding principal amount of the qualified real property
business debt (immediately before the
cancellation) over the FMV (immediately
before the cancellation) of the business
real property securing the debt, or
2. The total adjusted basis of depreciable
real property you held immediately before
the cancellation of the qualified real property business debt (other than depreciable
real property acquired in contemplation of
the cancellation).
Note: When figuring the first limit in (1)
above, reduce the FMV of the business real
property securing the debt (immediately before
the cancellation) by the outstanding principal
amount of any other qualified real property business debt secured by that property (immediately before the cancellation). When figuring the
second (overall) limit in (2) above, use the adjusted basis of the depreciable real property after any reductions in basis required because of
the exclusion of debt canceled under the bankruptcy, insolvency, or farm debt provisions described in this publication or because of other
basis adjustments that may apply to that depreciable property.
For more information about the basis of
property, see Pub. 551.
How to elect the qualified real property
business debt exclusion. You must make an
election to exclude canceled qualified real property business debt from gross income. The
election must be made on a timely filed federal
income tax return (including extensions) for
2025 and can be revoked only with IRS consent. The election is made by completing Form
982 in accordance with its instructions. Attach
Form 982 to your federal income tax return for
2025 and check the box on line 1d. Include the
amount of canceled qualified real property business debt (but not more than the amount of the
exclusion limit, explained earlier) on line 2 of
Form 982. You must also reduce your tax attributes in Part II of Form 982, as explained under
Reduction of Tax Attributes, later.
If you timely filed your tax return without
making this election, you can still make the
election by filing an amended return within 6
months of the due date of the return (excluding
extensions). Enter “Filed pursuant to section
301.9100-2” on the amended return and file it at
the same place you filed the original return.
Example—full qualified real property
business indebtedness exclusion. In 2019,
you bought a retail store for use in a business

that you operated as a sole proprietorship. You
made a $20,000 down payment and financed
the remaining $200,000 of the purchase price
with a bank loan. The bank loan was a recourse
loan and was secured by the property. You used
the property in the business continuously since
it was purchased. You had no other debt secured by that depreciable real property. In addition to the retail store, you owned depreciable
equipment and furniture with an adjusted basis
of $50,000.
Your business encountered financial difficulties in 2025. On September 21, 2025, the bank
financing the retail store loan entered into a
workout agreement with you under which it canceled $20,000 of the debt. Immediately before
the cancellation, the outstanding principal balance on the retail store loan was $185,000, the
FMV of the store was $165,000, and the adjusted basis was $210,000 ($220,000 cost minus
$10,000 accumulated depreciation).
The bank sent you a 2025 Form 1099-C
showing discharged debt of $20,000 in box 2.
You had no tax attributes other than the basis to
reduce and you didn’t qualify for any exception
or exclusion other than the qualified real property business debt exclusion.
You elect to apply the qualified real property
business debt exclusion to the canceled debt.
The amount of canceled qualified real property
business debt that you can exclude from income is limited. The amount you can exclude
can’t be more than either:
1. $20,000 (the excess of the $185,000 outstanding principal amount of your qualified
real property business debt immediately
before the cancellation over the $165,000
FMV of the business real property securing the debt), or
2. $210,000 (the total adjusted basis of the
depreciable real property you held immediately before the cancellation).
.

Thus, you can exclude the entire $20,000 of
canceled qualified real property business debt
from income. You check the box on line 1d of
Form 982 and enter $20,000 on line 2. You must
also use line 4 of Form 982 to reduce the basis
in depreciable real property by the $20,000 of
canceled qualified real property business debt
excluded from income, as explained under Reduction of Tax Attributes, later.

Qualified Principal
Residence Indebtedness
Qualified principal residence indebtedness is
any mortgage you took out to buy, build, or substantially improve your main home. It must also
be secured by your main home. Qualified principal residence indebtedness also includes any
debt secured by your main home that you used
to refinance a mortgage you took out to buy,
build, or substantially improve your main home,
but only up to the amount of the old mortgage
principal just before the refinancing.

Example 1—qualified principal residence indebtedness amount after refinance. In 2024, you bought a main home for
9

$315,000. You took out a $300,000 mortgage
loan to buy the home and made a down payment of $15,000. The loan was secured by the
home. Later that year, you took out a second
mortgage loan in the amount of $50,000 that
was used to add a garage to the home.
In 2025, when the outstanding principal of
the first and second mortgage loans was
$325,000, you refinanced the two loans into one
loan in the amount of $400,000. The FMV of the
home at the time of the refinancing was
$430,000. You used the additional $75,000 debt
proceeds ($400,000 new mortgage loan minus
$325,000 outstanding principal balances of the
first and second mortgage loans immediately
before the refinancing) to pay off personal credit
cards and to pay college tuition for your daughter.
After the refinancing, your qualified principal
residence indebtedness is $325,000 because
the $400,000 debt resulting from the refinancing
is qualified principal residence indebtedness
only to the extent it isn’t more than the old mortgage principal just before the refinancing (the
$325,000 of outstanding principal on your first
and second mortgages, which both qualified as
principal residence indebtedness).
Example 2—refinancing home equity
loan used for other purposes. In 2024, you
acquired a main home for $200,000, subject to
a mortgage of $175,000. Later that year, you
took out a home equity loan for $10,000, secured by the main home, which you used to pay
off personal credit cards.
In 2025, when the outstanding principal on
the mortgage was $170,000, and the outstanding principal on the home equity loan was
$9,000, you refinanced the two loans into one
loan in the amount of $200,000. The FMV of the
home at the time of refinancing was $210,000.
You used the additional $21,000 ($200,000 new
mortgage loan minus $179,000 outstanding
principal balances on the mortgage and home
equity loan) to cover medical expenses.
After refinancing, your qualified principal
residence indebtedness is $170,000 because
the debt resulting from the refinancing is qualified principal residence indebtedness only to
the extent it refinances debt that had been secured by the main home and was used to buy,
build, or substantially improve the main home.
Main home. Your main home is the one in
which you live most of the time. You can have
only one main home at any one time.
Other exclusions must be applied before
the qualified principal residence indebtedness exclusion. This exclusion doesn’t apply
to a cancellation of debt in a title 11 bankruptcy
case. If qualified principal residence indebtedness is canceled in a title 11 bankruptcy case,
you must apply the bankruptcy exclusion rather
than the exclusion for qualified principal residence indebtedness. If you were insolvent immediately before the cancellation, you can elect
to apply the insolvency exclusion (as explained
under Insolvency, earlier) instead of applying
the qualified principal residence indebtedness
exclusion. To do this, check the box on line 1b
of Form 982 instead of the box on line 1e.

10

Exclusion limit. The maximum amount you
can treat as qualified principal residence indebtedness is $750,000 ($375,000 if married filing
separately). You can’t exclude canceled qualified principal residence indebtedness from income if the cancellation was for services performed for the lender or on account of any other
factor not directly related to a decline in the
value of your home or to your financial condition.
Ordering rule. If only a part of a loan is qualified principal residence indebtedness, the exclusion applies only to the extent the amount
canceled is more than the amount of the loan
(immediately before the cancellation) that isn’t
qualified principal residence indebtedness. The
remaining part of the loan may qualify for another exclusion.
Example 3—ordering rule on cancellation of nonqualified principal residence
debt. You incurred recourse debt of $800,000
when you bought a main home for $880,000.
When the FMV of the property was $1 million,
you refinanced the debt for $850,000. At the
time of the refinancing, the principal balance of
the original mortgage loan was $740,000. You
used the $110,000 obtained from the refinancing ($850,000 minus $740,000) to pay off credit
cards and to buy a new car.
About 2 years after the refinancing, you lost
your job and were unable to get another job
paying a comparable salary. Your home had declined in value to between $600,000 and
$650,000. Based on your circumstances, the
lender agreed to allow a short sale of the property for $620,000 and to cancel the remaining
$115,000 of the outstanding $735,000 debt.
Under the ordering rule, you can exclude only
$5,000 of the canceled debt from income under
the exclusion for canceled qualified principal
residence indebtedness ($115,000 canceled
debt minus the $110,000 amount of the debt
that wasn’t qualified principal residence indebtedness). You must include the remaining
$110,000 of canceled debt in income on
Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8c (unless another exclusion applies).
How to report the qualified principal residence indebtedness exclusion. To show that
all or part of your canceled debt is excluded
from income because it is qualified principal
residence indebtedness, attach Form 982 to
your federal income tax return and check the
box on line 1e. On line 2 of Form 982, include
the amount of canceled qualified principal residence indebtedness, but not more than the
amount of the exclusion limit (explained earlier).
If you continue to own your home after a cancellation of qualified principal residence indebtedness, you must reduce your basis in the home,
as explained under Reduction of Tax Attributes
next.

Reduction of Tax
Attributes
If you exclude canceled debt from income, you
must reduce certain tax attributes (but not below zero) by the amount excluded. Use Part II of

Form 982 to reduce your tax attributes. The order in which the tax attributes are reduced depends on the reason the canceled debt was excluded from income. If the total amount of
canceled debt excluded from income (line 2 of
Form 982) was more than your total tax attributes, the total reduction of tax attributes in Part
II of Form 982 will be less than the amount on
line 2.

Qualified Principal
Residence Indebtedness
If you exclude canceled qualified principal residence indebtedness from income and you continue to own the home after the cancellation,
you must reduce the basis of the home (but not
below zero) by the amount of the canceled
qualified principal residence indebtedness excluded from income. Enter the amount of the
basis reduction on line 10b of Form 982.
For more details on determining the basis of
your main home, see Pub. 523.

Bankruptcy and Insolvency
No tax attributes other than basis of personal-use property. If the canceled debt you
are excluding isn’t excluded as qualified principal residence indebtedness and you have no
tax attributes other than the adjusted basis of
personal-use property (see the list of seven tax
attributes, later), you must reduce the basis of
the personal-use property you held at the beginning of 2026 (in proportion to adjusted basis).
Personal-use property is any property that isn’t
used in your trade or business or held for investment (such as your home, home furnishings,
and car). Include on line 10a of Form 982 the
smallest of:
1. The basis of your personal-use property
held at the beginning of 2026,
2. The amount of canceled nonbusiness debt
(other than qualified principal residence indebtedness) that you are excluding from
income on line 2 of Form 982, or
3. The excess of the total basis of the property and the amount of money you held immediately after the cancellation over your
total liabilities immediately after the cancellation.
For more information about the basis of
property, see Pub. 551.
Example. In 2024, you bought a car for personal use. The cost of the car was $12,000. You
put down $2,000 and took out a loan of $10,000
to buy the car. The loan was a recourse loan,
meaning that you were personally liable for the
full amount of the debt.
On December 7, 2025, when the balance of
the loan was $8,500, the lender repossessed
and sold the car because you stopped making
payments on the loan. The FMV of the car was
$7,000 at the time the lender repossessed and
sold it. The lender applied the $7,000 it received on the sale of the car against your loan
and forgave the remaining loan balance of

Publication 4681 (2025)

$1,500 ($8,500 outstanding balance immediately before the repossession minus the $7,000
FMV of the car).
Your only other assets at the time of the cancellation are the furniture in your apartment,
which has a basis of $5,000 and an FMV of
$3,000; jewelry with a basis of $500 and an
FMV of $1,000; and a $600 balance in a savings account. Thus, the FMV of your total assets immediately before the cancellation was
$11,600 ($7,000 car plus $3,000 furniture plus
$1,000 jewelry plus $600 savings). You also
had an outstanding student loan balance of
$6,000 immediately before the cancellation,
bringing the total liabilities at that time to
$14,500 ($8,500 balance on car loan plus
$6,000 student loan balance). Other than the
car, which was repossessed, you held all of
these assets at the beginning of 2026. The FMV
and basis of the assets remained the same at
the beginning of 2026.
You received a 2025 Form 1099-C showing
$1,500 in box 2 (amount of debt that was canceled) and $7,000 in box 7 (FMV of the property). You can exclude all $1,500 of canceled
debt from income because at the time of the
cancellation, you were insolvent to the extent of
$2,900 ($14,500 of total liabilities immediately
before the cancellation minus $11,600 FMV of
total assets at that time).
You check box 1b on Form 982 and enter
$1,500 on line 2. You enter $100 on line 10a,
the smallest of:
1. The $5,500 basis of your personal-use
property held at the beginning of 2026
($5,000 furniture plus $500 jewelry),
2. The $1,500 nonbusiness debt you are excluding from income on line 2 of Form 982,
or
3. The $100 excess of the total basis of the
property and the amount of money you
held immediately after the cancellation
over the total liabilities at that time ($5,500
basis of property held immediately after
the cancellation plus $600 savings minus
$6,000 student loan).
You must reduce (by one dollar for each dollar of excluded canceled debt) the basis in each
item of property held at the beginning of 2026 in
proportion to the total adjusted basis in all the
property. The total reduction, however, can’t be
more than (3) above—the $100 excess of the
total adjusted basis and the money held after
the cancellation over the total liabilities after the
cancellation. See the basis attribute under All
other tax attributes next.
Thus, you reduce the basis as follows.
1. The furniture’s basis is 91% of the total adjusted basis ($5,000 divided by $5,500),
so you reduce it by $91 (the $100 excess
in (3) multiplied by 0.91).
2. The jewelry’s basis is 9% of the total adjusted basis ($500 divided by $5,500), so
you reduce it by $9 (the $100 excess in (3)
multiplied by 0.09).
All other tax attributes. If the canceled debt
is excluded by reason of the bankruptcy or insolvency exclusion, you must use the excluded
debt to reduce the following tax attributes (but
not below zero) in the order listed unless you
Publication 4681 (2025)

elect to reduce the basis of depreciable property first, as explained later. Reduce your tax attributes after you figure your income tax liability
for 2025.
1. Net operating loss (NOL). First reduce
any 2025 NOL and then reduce any NOL
carryover to 2025 (after taking into account any amount used to reduce 2025
taxable income) in the order of the tax
years from which the carryovers arose,
starting with the earliest year. Reduce the
NOL or carryover by one dollar for each
dollar of excluded canceled debt.
2. General business credit carryover. Reduce the credit carryover to or from 2025.
Reduce the credit carryovers to 2025 in
the order in which they are taken into account for 2025. For more information on
the credit ordering rules for 2025, see the
Instructions for Form 3800. Reduce the
carryover by 331/3 cents for each dollar of
excluded canceled debt.
3. Minimum tax credit. Reduce the minimum tax credit available at the beginning
of 2026. Reduce the credit by 331/3 cents
for each dollar of excluded canceled debt.
4. Net capital loss and capital loss carryovers. First reduce any 2025 net capital
loss and then any capital loss carryover to
2025 (after taking into account any amount
used to reduce 2025 taxable income) in
the order of the tax years from which the
carryovers arose, starting with the earliest
year. Reduce the net capital loss or carryover by one dollar for each dollar of excluded canceled debt.
5. Basis. Reduce the basis of the property
you hold at the beginning of 2026 in the
following order (and, within each category,
in proportion to adjusted basis).
a. Real property used in your trade or
business or held for investment (other
than real property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business) if it secured the canceled debt.
b. Personal property used in your trade
or business or held for investment
(other than inventory and accounts
and notes receivable) if it secured the
canceled debt.
c. Any other property used in your trade
or business or held for investment
(other than inventory, accounts receivable, notes receivable, and real property held for sale to customers in the
ordinary course of business).
d. Inventory, accounts receivable, notes
receivable, and real property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business.
e. Personal-use property (property not
used in your trade or business nor
held for investment).
Reduce the basis by one dollar for
each dollar of excluded canceled debt.
However, the reduction can’t be more than
the excess of the total basis of the property and the amount of money you held immediately after the debt cancellation over

your total liabilities immediately after the
cancellation.
For allocation rules that apply to basis
reductions for multiple canceled debts,
see Regulations section 1.1017-1(b)(2).
Also see Election to reduce the basis of
depreciable property before reducing
other tax attributes, later.
6. Passive activity loss and credit carryovers. Reduce the passive activity loss
and credit carryovers from 2025. Reduce
the loss carryover by one dollar for each
dollar of excluded canceled debt. Reduce
the credit carryover by 331/3 cents for each
dollar of excluded canceled debt.
7. Foreign tax credit. Reduce the credit carryover to or from 2025. Reduce the credit
carryovers to 2025 in the order in which
they are taken into account for 2025. Reduce the carryover by 331/3 cents for each
dollar of excluded canceled debt.
Election to reduce the basis of depreciable
property before reducing other tax attributes. You can elect to reduce the basis of depreciable property you held at the beginning of
2026 before reducing other tax attributes. You
can reduce the basis of this property by all or
part of the canceled debt. Basis of property is
reduced in the following order.
1. Depreciable real property used in your
trade or business or held for investment
that secured the canceled debt.
2. Depreciable personal property used in
your trade or business or held for investment that secured the canceled debt.
3. Other depreciable property used in your
trade or business or held for investment.
4. Real property held primarily for sale to
customers if you elect to treat it as if it
were depreciable property on Form 982.
Basis reduction is limited to the total adjusted basis of all your depreciable property. Depreciable property for this purpose means any
property subject to depreciation or amortization,
but only if a reduction of basis will reduce the
depreciation or amortization otherwise allowable for the period immediately following the basis reduction. If the amount of canceled debt excluded from income is more than the total basis
in depreciable property, you must use the excess to reduce the other tax attributes in the order described earlier under All other tax attributes. In figuring the limit on the basis reduction
in (5), Basis, use the remaining adjusted basis
of your properties after making this election.
See Form 982 for information on how to make
this election. The election can be revoked only
with IRS consent.
Recapture of basis reductions. If you reduce
the basis of property under these provisions
and later sell or otherwise dispose of the property at a gain, the part of the gain due to this basis reduction is taxable as ordinary income under the depreciation recapture provisions. Treat
any property that isn’t section 1245 or section
1250 property as section 1245 property. For
section 1250 property, determine the depreciation adjustments that would have resulted under
11

the straight line method as if there were no basis reduction for debt cancellation. See Pub.
544, or Pub. 225, for more details on sections
1245 and 1250 property and the recapture of
gain as ordinary income.

Qualified Farm Indebtedness
If you exclude canceled debt from income under
both the insolvency exclusion and the exclusion
for qualified farm indebtedness, you must first
reduce your tax attributes by the amount excluded under the insolvency exclusion. Then, reduce your remaining tax attributes (but not below zero) by the amount of canceled debt that
qualifies for the farm debt exclusion.
In most cases, when reducing your tax attributes for canceled qualified farm indebtedness excluded from income, reduce them in the
same order explained under Bankruptcy and Insolvency, earlier. However, don’t follow the rules
in item (5), Basis. Instead, reduce only the basis
of qualified property. Qualified property is any
property you use or hold for use in your trade or
business or for the production of income. Reduce the basis of qualified property in the following order.
1. Depreciable qualified property. You can
elect on Form 982 to treat real property
held primarily for sale to customers as if it
were depreciable property.
2. Land that is qualified property and is used
or held for use in your farming business.
3. Other qualified property.

Qualified Real Property
Business Indebtedness
If you make an election to exclude canceled
qualified real property business debt from income, you must reduce the basis of your depreciable real property (but not below zero) by the
amount of canceled qualified real property business debt excluded from income. The basis reduction is made at the beginning of 2026. However, if you dispose of your depreciable real
property before the beginning of 2026, you must
reduce its basis (but not below zero) immediately before the disposition. Enter the amount of
the basis reduction on line 4 of Form 982.
Example 1—qualified real property business indebtedness and insolvency with reduction in basis. In 2020, you bought a retail
store for use in a business operated as a sole
proprietorship. You made a $20,000 down payment and financed the remaining $200,000 of
the purchase price with a bank loan. The bank
loan was a recourse loan and was secured by
the property. You used the property in the business continuously since it was purchased and
had no other debt secured by that depreciable
real property. In addition to the retail store, you
owned depreciable equipment and furniture
with an adjusted basis of $50,000. Your tax attributes included the basis of depreciable property, an NOL, and a capital loss carryover to
2025.
Your business encountered financial difficulties in 2025. On September 21, 2025, the bank
financing the retail store loan entered into a
12

workout agreement with you under which it canceled $20,000 of the principal amount of the
debt. Immediately before the bank entered into
the workout agreement, you were insolvent to
the extent of $12,000. At that time, the outstanding principal balance on the retail store
loan was $185,000, the FMV of the store was
$165,000, and the adjusted basis was
$210,000 ($220,000 cost minus $10,000 accumulated depreciation). The bank sent you a
2025 Form 1099-C showing canceled debt of
$20,000 in box 2.
You must apply the insolvency exclusion before applying the exclusion for canceled qualified real property business indebtedness. Under the insolvency exclusion rules, you can
exclude $12,000 of the canceled debt from income. You elect to reduce the basis of depreciable property before reducing other tax attributes. Under that election, you must first reduce
the basis in the depreciable real property used
in the trade or business that secured the canceled debt. After the basis reduction, the adjusted basis in that property is $198,000 ($210,000
adjusted basis before entering into the workout
agreement minus $12,000 of canceled debt excluded from income under the insolvency exclusion).
You may be able to exclude the remaining
$8,000 of canceled debt from income under the
exclusion for qualified real property business indebtedness, if you elect to apply it. The amount
you can exclude is limited. It can’t be more than:
1. $20,000 (the excess of the $185,000 outstanding principal amount of your qualified
real property business debt (immediately
before the cancellation) over the $165,000
FMV (immediately before the cancellation)
of the qualified real property, which secured the debt), or
2. $198,000 (the total adjusted basis of depreciable real property you held immediately before the cancellation determined
after reductions for accumulated depreciation and canceled debt excluded under the
insolvency exclusion ($220,000 minus
$10,000 minus $12,000)).
Since both limits are more than the $8,000
of remaining canceled debt ($20,000 minus
$12,000), you can exclude $8,000 under the
qualified real property business indebtedness
exclusion.
You check the boxes on lines 1b and 1d of
Form 982. You complete Part II of Form 982 to
reduce the basis in the depreciable real property by $20,000, the amount of the canceled
debt excluded from income. You enter $8,000
on line 4 and $12,000 on line 5.
Example 2—qualified real property business indebtedness with insolvency and reduction in NOL. You own depreciable real
property used in a retail business. Your adjusted
basis in the property is $145,000. The FMV of
the property is $120,000. The property is subject to $134,000 of recourse debt, which is secured by the property. You had no other debt
secured by that depreciable real property. You
also had a $15,000 NOL in 2025.
During 2025, you entered into a workout
agreement with the lender under which the
lender canceled $14,000 of the debt on the real
Chapter 2

Foreclosures and Repossessions

property used in the business. Immediately before the cancellation, you were insolvent to the
extent of $10,000. You exclude $10,000 of the
canceled debt from income under the insolvency exclusion. As a result of that exclusion,
you reduce the NOL by $10,000.
You may be able to exclude the remaining
$4,000 of canceled debt from income under the
qualified real property business indebtedness
exclusion, if you elect to apply it. The amount
you can exclude is limited. It can’t be more than:
1. $14,000 (the excess of the $134,000 outstanding principal amount of your qualified
real property business debt (immediately
before the cancellation) over the $120,000
FMV (immediately before the cancellation)
of that qualified real property, which secured the debt), or
2. $145,000 (the total adjusted basis of depreciable real property held immediately
before the cancellation of debt).
Since both limits ($14,000 and $145,000)
are more than the remaining $4,000 of canceled
debt, you can also exclude the remaining
$4,000 of canceled debt.
You check the boxes on lines 1b and 1d of
Form 982 and enter $14,000 on line 2. You
complete Part II of Form 982 to reduce the basis
of depreciable real property and the 2025 NOL
by entering $4,000 on line 4 and $10,000 on
line 6. None of the canceled debt is included in
income.

2.
Foreclosures
and
Repossessions
If you don’t make payments you owe on a loan
secured by property, the lender may foreclose
on the loan or repossess the property. The foreclosure or repossession is treated as a sale
from which you may realize gain or loss. This is
true even if you voluntarily return the property to
the lender. If the outstanding loan balance was
more than the FMV of the property and the
lender cancels all or part of the remaining loan
balance, you may also realize ordinary income
from the cancellation of debt. You must report
this income on your return unless certain exceptions or exclusions apply. See chapter 1 for
more details.
Borrower’s gain or loss. You figure and report
gain or loss from a foreclosure or repossession
in the same way as gain or loss from a sale. The
gain is the difference between the amount
Publication 4681 (2025)

Table 1-1. Worksheet for Foreclosures and
Repossessions

Keep for Your Records

Part 1. Complete Part 1 only if you were personally liable for the debt (even if none of the debt was
canceled). Otherwise, go to Part 2.
1. Enter the amount of outstanding debt immediately before the transfer of property
reduced by any amount for which you remain personally liable immediately after
the transfer of property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Enter the fair market value of the transferred property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3. Ordinary income from the cancellation of debt upon foreclosure or
repossession.* Subtract line 2 from line 1. If less than zero, enter zero. Next, go
to Part 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Part 2. Gain or loss from foreclosure or repossession.
4. Enter the smaller of line 1 or line 2. If you didn’t complete Part 1 (because you
weren’t personally liable for the debt), enter the amount of outstanding debt
immediately before the transfer of property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. Enter any proceeds you received from the foreclosure sale . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6. Add line 4 and line 5

........................................

7. Enter the adjusted basis of the transferred property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Gain or loss from foreclosure or repossession. Subtract line 7
from line 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
*

The income may not be taxable. See chapter 1 for more details.

realized and your adjusted basis in the transferred property (amount realized minus adjusted
basis). The loss is the difference between your
adjusted basis in the transferred property and
the amount realized (adjusted basis minus
amount realized). For more information on figuring gain or loss from the sale of property, see
Gain or Loss From Sales and Exchanges in
Pub. 544.
You can use Table 1-1 to figure your or-

TIP dinary income from the cancellation of

debt and your gain or loss from a foreclosure or repossession.

Amount realized and ordinary income on
a recourse debt. If you are personally liable
for the debt, the amount realized on the foreclosure or repossession includes the smaller of:
1. The outstanding debt immediately before
the transfer reduced by any amount for
which you remain personally liable immediately after the transfer, or
2. The FMV of the transferred property.
The amount realized also includes any proceeds you received from the foreclosure sale. If
the FMV of the transferred property is less than
the total outstanding debt immediately before
the transfer reduced by any amount for which
you remain personally liable immediately after
the transfer, the difference is ordinary income
from the cancellation of debt. You must report
this income on your return unless certain exceptions or exclusions apply. See chapter 1 for
more details.
Example 1. In 2024, you paid $200,000 for
a home. You made a $15,000 down payment
and borrowed the remaining $185,000 from a
bank. You are personally liable for the mortgage
loan and the house secures the loan. In 2025,
the bank foreclosed on the mortgage because
you stopped making payments. When the bank
foreclosed the mortgage, the balance due was
$180,000, the FMV of the house was $170,000,
and your adjusted basis was $175,000 due to a
Publication 4681 (2025)

casualty loss that was deducted. At the time of
the foreclosure, the bank forgave $2,000 of the
$10,000 debt in excess of the FMV ($180,000
minus $170,000). You remained personally liable for the $8,000 balance.
In this case, you have ordinary income from
the cancellation of debt in the amount of
$2,000. The $2,000 income from the cancellation of debt is figured by subtracting the
$170,000 FMV of the house from the $172,000
difference between the total outstanding debt
immediately before the transfer of property and
the amount for which you remain personally liable immediately after the transfer ($180,000 minus $8,000). You are able to exclude the $2,000
of canceled debt from income under the qualified principal residence indebtedness rules, discussed earlier.
You must also determine the gain or loss
from the foreclosure. In this case, the amount
realized is $170,000. This is the smaller of:
1. $172,000 (the $180,000 of outstanding
debt immediately before the transfer minus
$8,000 for which you remain personally liable immediately after the transfer), or
2. $170,000 (the FMV of the house).
You figure the gain or loss on the foreclosure
by comparing the $170,000 amount realized
with the $175,000 adjusted basis. You have a
$5,000 nondeductible loss.
Example 2. You bought a new car for
$15,000. You made a $2,000 down payment
and borrowed the remaining $13,000 from the
dealer’s credit company. You are personally liable for the loan (recourse debt) and the car is
pledged as security for the loan. On August 3,
2025, the credit company repossessed the car
because you stopped making loan payments.
The balance due after taking into account the
payments you made was $10,000. The FMV of
the car when it was repossessed was $9,000.
On November 16, 2025, the credit company forgave the remaining $1,000 balance on the loan
due to insufficient assets.
Chapter 2

Foreclosures and Repossessions

In this case, the amount you realize is
$9,000. This is the smaller of:
1. $9,000 (the $10,000 outstanding debt immediately before the repossession minus
the $1,000 for which you remain personally liable immediately after the repossession), or
2. $9,000 (the FMV of the car).
You figure the gain or loss on the repossession by comparing the $9,000 amount realized
with the $15,000 adjusted basis. You have a
$6,000 nondeductible loss. After the cancellation of the remaining balance on the loan in November, you also have ordinary income from
cancellation of debt in the amount of $1,000
(the remaining balance on the $10,000 loan after the $9,000 amount satisfied by the FMV of
the repossessed car). You must report the
$1,000 on the return unless one of the exceptions or exclusions described in chapter 1 applies.
Amount realized on a nonrecourse debt.
If you aren’t personally liable for repaying the
debt secured by the transferred property, the
amount you realize includes the full amount of
the outstanding debt immediately before the
transfer. This is true even if the FMV of the property is less than the outstanding debt immediately before the transfer.
Example 1. You paid $200,000 for a home.
You made a $15,000 down payment and borrowed the remaining $185,000 from a bank. You
aren’t personally liable for the loan, but the loan
was secured by a mortgage on the house.
The bank foreclosed on the mortgage because you stopped making payments. When
the bank foreclosed on the mortgage, the balance due was $180,000, the FMV of the house
was $170,000, and your adjusted basis was
$175,000 due to a casualty loss that was deducted.
The amount you realized on the foreclosure
is $180,000, the outstanding debt immediately
before the foreclosure. You figure the gain or
loss by comparing the $180,000 amount realized with the $175,000 adjusted basis. You have
a $5,000 realized gain. See Pub. 523, to figure
and report any taxable amount.
Example 2. You bought a new car for
$15,000. You made a $2,000 down payment
and borrowed the remaining $13,000 from the
dealer’s credit company. You aren’t personally liable for the loan (nonrecourse), but pledged the
new car as security for the loan.
On August 3, 2025, the credit company repossessed the car because you stopped making loan payments. The balance due after taking into account the payments you made was
$10,000. The FMV of the car when it was repossessed was $9,000.
The amount you realized on the repossession is $10,000. That is the outstanding amount
of debt immediately before the repossession,
even though the FMV of the car is less than
$10,000. You figure the gain or loss on the repossession by comparing the $10,000 amount
realized with the $15,000 adjusted basis. You
have a $5,000 nondeductible loss.

13

Forms 1099-A and 1099-C. A lender who acquires an interest in your property in a foreclosure or repossession should send you Form
1099-A, Acquisition or Abandonment of Secured Property, showing information you need
to figure your gain or loss. However, if the lender
also cancels part of your debt and must file
Form 1099-C, the lender can include the information about the foreclosure or repossession
on that form instead of on Form 1099-A. The
lender must file Form 1099-C and send you a
copy if the amount of debt canceled is $600 or
more and the lender is a financial institution,
credit union, federal government agency, or
other applicable entity, as discussed earlier in
chapter 1. For foreclosures or repossessions
occurring in 2025, these forms should be sent
to you by February 2, 2026.

3.
Abandonments
You abandon property when you voluntarily and
permanently give up possession and use of the
property with the intention of ending your ownership but without passing it on to anyone else.
Whether an abandonment has occurred is determined in light of all the facts and circumstances. You must both show an intention to abandon the property and affirmatively act to
abandon the property.
A voluntary conveyance of the property in lieu of
foreclosure isn’t an abandonment and is treated
as the exchange of property to satisfy a debt.
For more information, see Sales and Exchanges in Pub. 544.
The tax consequences of abandonment of
property that secures a debt depend on
whether you were personally liable for the debt
(recourse debt) or weren’t personally liable for
the debt (nonrecourse debt).
See Pub. 544 if you abandoned prop-

TIP erty that didn’t secure debt. This publi-

cation only discusses the tax consequences of abandoning property that secured a
debt.

Abandonment of property securing recourse debt. In most cases, if you abandon
property that secures debt for which you are
personally liable (recourse debt), you don’t have
gain or loss until the later foreclosure is completed. For details on figuring gain or loss on the
foreclosure, see chapter 2.
Example 1—abandonment of personal-use property securing recourse debt.
In 2021, you purchased a home for $200,000.
You borrowed the entire purchase price, for
which you were personally liable, and gave the
bank a mortgage on the home. In 2025, you lost
your job and were unable to continue making
the mortgage loan payments. Because your
mortgage loan balance was $185,000 and the
14

FMV of the home was only $150,000, you decided to abandon the home by permanently moving out on August 1, 2025. Because you were
personally liable for the debt and the bank didn’t
complete a foreclosure of the property in 2025,
you have neither gain nor loss in tax year 2025
from abandoning the home. If the bank sells the
house at a foreclosure sale in 2026, you will
have to figure the gain or nondeductible loss for
tax year 2026, as discussed earlier in chapter 2.
Example 2—abandonment of business
or investment property securing recourse
debt. In 2021, you purchased business property for $200,000. You borrowed the entire purchase price, for which you were personally liable, and gave the lender a security interest in
the property. In 2025, you were unable to continue making the loan payments. Because the
loan balance was $185,000 and the FMV of the
property was only $150,000, you abandoned
the property on August 1, 2025. Because you
were personally liable for the debt and the
lender didn’t complete a foreclosure of the property in 2025, you have neither gain nor loss in
tax year 2025 from abandoning the property. If
the lender sells the property at a foreclosure
sale in 2026, you will have to figure the gain or
deductible loss for tax year 2026, as discussed
earlier in chapter 2.
Abandonment of property securing nonrecourse debt. If you abandon property that secures debt for which you aren’t personally liable
(nonrecourse debt), the abandonment is treated
as a sale or exchange.
The amount you realize on the abandonment of property that secured nonrecourse debt
is the amount of the nonrecourse debt. If the
amount you realize is more than your adjusted
basis, then you have a gain. If your adjusted basis is more than the amount you realize, then
you have a loss. For more information on how to
figure gain and loss, see Gain or Loss From
Sales and Exchanges in Pub. 544.
Loss from abandonment of business or investment property is deductible as a loss. The
character of the loss depends on the character
of the property. The amount of deductible capital loss may be limited. For more information,
see Treatment of Capital Losses in Pub. 544.
You can’t deduct any loss from abandonment of
your home or other property held for personal
use.
Example 1—abandonment of personal-use property securing nonrecourse
debt. In 2021, you purchased a home for
$200,000. You borrowed the entire purchase
price, for which you weren’t personally liable,
and gave the bank a mortgage on the home. In
2025, you lost your job and were unable to continue making the mortgage loan payments. Because the mortgage loan balance was
$185,000 and the FMV of the home was only
$150,000, you decided to abandon the home by
permanently moving out on August 1, 2025. Because you weren’t personally liable for the debt,
the abandonment is treated as a sale or exchange of the home in tax year 2025. Your
amount realized is $185,000 and the adjusted
basis in the home is $200,000. You have a
$15,000 nondeductible loss in tax year 2025.
(Had your adjusted basis been less than the

amount realized, you would have had a gain
that would have to be included in gross income.) The bank sells the house at a foreclosure sale in 2026. You have neither gain nor
loss from the foreclosure sale. Because you
weren’t personally liable for the debt, you also
have no cancellation of debt income.
Example 2—abandonment of business
or investment property securing nonrecourse debt. In 2021, you purchased business
property for $200,000. You borrowed the entire
purchase price, for which you weren’t personally liable, and gave the lender a security interest in the property. In 2025, you were unable to
continue making the loan payments. Because
the loan balance was $185,000 and the FMV of
the property was only $150,000, you decided to
abandon the property on August 3, 2025. Because you weren’t personally liable for the debt,
the abandonment is treated as a sale or exchange of the property in tax year 2025. Your
amount realized is $185,000 and the adjusted
basis in the property is $180,000 (as a result of
$20,000 of depreciation deductions on the
property). You have a $5,000 gain in tax year
2025. (Had your adjusted basis been greater
than the amount realized, you would have had a
deductible loss.) The lender sells the property
at a foreclosure sale in 2026. You have neither
gain nor loss from the foreclosure sale. Because you weren’t personally liable for the debt,
you also have no cancellation of debt income.
Canceled debt. If the abandoned property secures a debt for which you are personally liable
and the debt is canceled, you will realize ordinary income equal to the canceled debt. This
income is separate from any amount realized
from abandonment of the property. You must report this income on your return unless one of
the exceptions or exclusions described in chapter 1 applies.
Forms 1099-A and 1099-C. In most cases, if
you abandon:
• Real property (such as a home),
• Intangible property, or
• Tangible personal property held (wholly or
partly) for use in a trade or business or for
investment
that secures a loan and the lender knows the
property has been abandoned, the lender
should send you Form 1099-A showing information you need to figure your gain or loss from the
abandonment. Also, if your debt is canceled
and the lender must file Form 1099-C, the
lender can include the information about the
abandonment on that form instead of on Form
1099-A. The lender must file Form 1099-C and
send you a copy if the amount of debt canceled
is $600 or more and the lender is a financial institution, credit union, federal government
agency, or other applicable entity, as discussed
earlier in chapter 1.
For abandonments of property and debt
cancellations occurring in 2025, these forms
should be sent to you by February 2, 2026.

Publication 4681 (2025)

How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need
help preparing your tax return; or want to download free publications, forms, or instructions, go
to IRS.gov to find resources that can help you
right away.
Tax reform. Tax reform legislation impacting
federal taxes, credits, and deductions was
enacted in P.L. 119-21, commonly known as the
One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July 4, 2025. Go
to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return. After
receiving all your wage and earnings statements (Forms W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, 1099-MISC,
1099-NEC, etc.); unemployment compensation
statements (by mail or in a digital format) or
other government payment statements (Form
1099-G); and interest, dividend, and retirement
statements from banks and investment firms
(Forms 1099), you have several options to
choose from to prepare and file your tax return.
You can prepare the tax return yourself, see if
you qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax
professional to prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation. Your options for preparing and filing your return online
or in your local community, if you qualify, include
the following.
• Free File. This program lets you prepare
and file your federal individual income tax
return for free using software or Free File
Fillable Forms. However, state tax preparation may not be available through Free File.
Go to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify
for free online federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or payment options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program offers free tax help to
people with low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need help
preparing their own tax returns. Go to
IRS.gov/VITA, download the free IRS2Go
app, or call 800-906-9887 for information
on free tax return preparation.
• TCE. The Tax Counseling for the Elderly
(TCE) program offers free tax help for all
taxpayers, particularly those who are 60
years of age and older. TCE volunteers
specialize in answering questions about
pensions and retirement-related issues
unique to seniors. Go to IRS.gov/TCE or
download the free IRS2Go app for information on free tax return preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed
Forces and qualified veterans may use MilTax, a free tax service offered by the Department of Defense through Military OneSource. For more information, go to
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/
MilTax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms,
which can be completed online and then
e-filed regardless of income.

Publication 4681 (2025)

Using online tools to help prepare your return. Go to IRS.gov/Tools for the following.
• The Earned Income Tax Credit Assistant
(IRS.gov/EITCAssistant) determines if
you’re eligible for the earned income credit
(EITC).
• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN)
helps you get an employer identification
number (EIN) at no cost.
• The Tax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/
W4App) makes it easier for you to estimate
the federal income tax you want your employer to withhold from your paycheck.
This is tax withholding. See how your withholding affects your refund, take-home pay,
or tax due.
• The Sales Tax Deduction Calculator
(IRS.gov/SalesTax) figures the amount you
can claim if you itemize deductions on
Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions. On IRS.gov, you can get
up-to-date information on current
events and changes in tax law.

• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you

get answers to some of the most common
tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive Tax Assistant,
a tool that will ask you questions and,
based on your input, provide answers on a
number of tax topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions,
and publications. You will find details on
the most recent tax changes and interactive links to help you find answers to your
questions.
• You may also be able to access tax information in your e-filing software.

Need someone to prepare your tax return?
There are various types of tax return preparers,
including enrolled agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, and many others who don’t have professional credentials. If
you choose to have someone prepare your tax
return, choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax
preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accuracy of your return,
• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs
the return, you’re ultimately responsible
CAUTION for providing all the information required for the preparer to accurately prepare
your return and for the accuracy of every item
reported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare
tax returns for others should have a thorough
understanding of tax matters. For more information on how to choose a tax preparer, go to Tips
for Choosing a Tax Preparer on IRS.gov.

!

Employers can register to use Business
Services Online. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers online service at SSA.gov/
employer for fast, free, and secure W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents,
and individuals who process Form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement; and Form W-2c, Corrected
Wage and Tax Statement.

Business tax account. If you are a sole proprietor, a partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a single-member limited liability
company (LLC), you can view your tax information on record with the IRS and do more with a
business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia
to see the various social media tools the IRS
uses to share the latest information on tax
changes, scam alerts, initiatives, products, and
services. At the IRS, privacy and security are
our highest priority. We use these tools to share
public information with you. Don’t post your social security number (SSN) or other confidential
information on social media sites. Always protect your identity when using any social networking site.
The following IRS YouTube channels provide
short, informative videos on various tax-related
topics in English, Spanish, and ASL.
• Youtube.com/irsvideos.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosmultilingua.
• Youtube.com/irsvideosASL.
Online tax information in other languages.
You can find information on IRS.gov/
MyLanguage if English isn’t your native language.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service.
The IRS serves taxpayers with limited-English
proficiency (LEP) by offering OPI service. The
OPI Service is available at Taxpayer Assistance
Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every
VITA/TCE tax return site. The OPI Service is accessible in more than 300 languages.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with disabilities. Taxpayers who need information about accessibility services can call
833-690-0598. The Accessibility Helpline can
answer questions related to current and future
accessibility products and services available in
alternative media formats (for example,
braille-ready, large print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not have access to
your IRS account. For help with tax law, refunds,
or account-related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference. Form 9000,
Alternative Media Preference, or Form
9000(SP) allows you to elect to receive certain
types of written correspondence in the following
formats.
• Standard Print.

•
•
•
•
•

Large Print.
Braille.
Audio (MP3).
Plain Text File (TXT).
Braille-Ready File (BRF).

Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications. Go to
IRS.gov/Forms to view, download, or print all
the forms, instructions, and publications you
may need. Or, you can go to IRS.gov/
OrderForms to place an order.
15

Mobile-friendly forms. You’ll need an IRS
Online Account (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require signatures. You’ll
have the option to submit your form(s) online or
download a copy for mailing. You’ll need scans
of your documents to support your submission.
Go to IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in
eBook format. Download and view most tax
publications and instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on mobile devices as
eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s
iBooks for iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated eBook readers, and
eBook functionality may not operate as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access information about your federal tax
account.
• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax year.
• See payment plan details or apply for a
new payment plan.
• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history and any pending or scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including key
data from your most recent tax return, and
transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from
the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests
from tax professionals.
Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, you can access a variety of information to help you during the filing season. You
can get a transcript, review your most recently
filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross income. Create or access your online account at
IRS.gov/Account.
Tax Pro Account. This tool lets your tax professional submit an authorization request to access your individual taxpayer IRS OLA. For
more
information,
go
to
IRS.gov/
TaxProAccount.
Using direct deposit. The safest and easiest
way to receive a tax refund is to e-file and
choose direct deposit, which securely and electronically transfers your refund directly into your
financial account. Direct deposit also avoids the
possibility that your check could be lost, stolen,
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS.
Eight in 10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank or credit
union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax-related
identity theft issues.
• Tax-related identity theft happens when
someone steals your personal information
to commit tax fraud. Your taxes can be af-

16

fected if your SSN is used to file a fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.

• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with tax-

payers by email, text messages (including
shortened links), telephone calls, or social
media channels to request or verify personal or financial information. This includes
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), passwords, or similar information for credit cards, banks, or other financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft Central webpage, for information
on identity theft and data security protection for taxpayers, tax professionals, and
businesses. If your SSN has been lost or
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of
tax-related identity theft, you can learn
what steps you should take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP
PINs are six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help prevent the misuse of their
SSNs on fraudulent federal income tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it prevents someone else from filing a tax return
with your SSN. To learn more, go to
IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of your refund.
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your
mobile device to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at
800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before
mid-February for returns that claimed
CAUTION the EITC or the additional child tax
credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire refund,
not just the portion associated with these credits.

!

Making a tax payment. The IRS recommends
paying electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electronically are included in the list
below. Payments of U.S. tax must be remitted to
the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets are not
accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information on how to make a payment using any of the
following options.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank
account. It’s free and secure, and no
sign-in is required. You can change or cancel within two days of scheduled payment.
• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet:
Choose an approved payment processor
to pay online or by phone.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a
payment when filing your federal taxes using tax return preparation software or
through a tax professional.
• Electronic Federal Tax Payment System:
This is the best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment
to the address listed on the notice or instructions.
• Cash: You may be able to pay your taxes
with cash at a participating retail store.
• Same-Day Wire: You may be able to do
same-day wire from your financial institution. Contact your financial institution for
availability, cost, and time frames.

Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption
technology to ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by phone, or from a
mobile device using the IRS2Go app are safe
and secure. Paying electronically is quick and
easy.
What if I can’t pay now? Go to IRS.gov/
Payments for more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment agreement
(IRS.gov/OPA) to meet your tax obligation
in monthly installments if you can’t pay
your taxes in full today. Once you complete
the online process, you will receive immediate notification of whether your agreement has been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier
to see if you can settle your tax debt for
less than the full amount you owe. For
more information on the Offer in Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Filing an amended return. Go to IRS.gov/
Form1040X for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return. Go to IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status
of Form 1040-X amended returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date
you filed your amended return for it to
CAUTION show up in our system, and processing
it can take up to 16 weeks.

!

Understanding an IRS notice or letter
you’ve received. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find
additional information about responding to an
IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool. You may be
able to use the Document Upload Tool to respond digitally to eligible IRS notices and letters
by securely uploading required documents online through IRS.gov. For more information, go
to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP. You can use Schedule LEP
(Form 1040), Request for Change in Language
Preference, to state a preference to receive notices, letters, or other written communications
from the IRS in an alternative language. You
may not immediately receive written communications in the requested language. The IRS’s
commitment to LEP taxpayers is part of a
multi-year timeline that began providing translations in 2023. You will continue to receive communications, including notices and letters, in
English until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC. Keep in mind,
many questions can be answered on IRS.gov
without visiting a TAC. Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp
for the topics people ask about most. If you still
need help, TACs provide tax help when a tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All
TACs now provide service by appointment, so
you’ll know in advance that you can get the
service you need without long wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to find
the nearest TAC and to check hours, available
services, and appointment options. Or, on the
IRS2Go app, under the Stay Connected tab,
Publication 4681 (2025)

choose the Contact Us option and click on “Local Offices.”
———————————————————
—————
Below is a message to you from the Taxpayer Advocate Service, an independent organization established by Congress.

The Taxpayer Advocate
Service (TAS) Is Here To
Help You

What Is the Taxpayer Advocate
Service?

The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent organization within the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS). TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS, makes administrative and legislative recommendations to prevent
or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is
treated fairly and that you know and understand
your rights under the Taxpayer Bill of Rights. We
are Your Voice at the IRS.

Publication 4681 (2025)

How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you
haven’t been able to resolve with the IRS on
your own. Always try to resolve your problem
with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then come to
TAS. Our services are free.
• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), including individuals, businesses, and exempt organizations. You
may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS
problem is causing financial difficulty, if
you’ve tried and been unable to resolve
your issue with the IRS, or if you believe an
IRS system, process, or procedure just
isn’t working as it should.
• To get help any time with general tax topics, visit www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov.
The site can help you with common tax issues and situations, such as what to do if
you make a mistake on your return or if you
get a notice from the IRS.
• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems that affect many taxpayers. You can report systemic issues at

www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include any personal identifiable information.)

How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of
Columbia, and Puerto Rico. To find your local
advocate’s number:
• Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.

What Are My Rights as a
Taxpayer?
The Taxpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic
rights that all taxpayers have when dealing with
the IRS. Go to www.TaxpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/
Taxpayer-Rights for more information about the
rights, what they mean to you, and how they apply to specific situations you may encounter
with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer
rights and ensure the IRS is administering the
tax law in a fair and equitable way.

17

Index

To help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.

1099-C 4

Income from 3
Co-owners 4

A

D

Abandonments 14
Canceled debt 14
Assistance (See Tax help)

B
Bankruptcy 6
Reduction of tax attributes 10
Business:
Real property indebtedness 9

C
Canceled debt 4
Exceptions:
Deductible debt 6
Gifts 4
Price reduced after
purchase 6
Student loans 4
Exclusions:
Bankruptcy 6
Insolvency 6
Qualified farm
indebtedness 8
Qualified principal residence
indebtedness 9
Qualified real property
business indebtedness 9

18

Debts:
Stockholder’s 4
Definitions:
Adjusted tax attributes 8
Qualified acquisition
indebtedness 9
Qualified farm indebtedness 8
Qualified principal residence
indebtedness 9
Qualified real property business
indebtedness 9

E
Educational loans 4

F
Farm indebtedness 8
Reduction of tax attributes 12
Foreclosures 12
Form:
1099-A 14
1099-C 14

G
Gifts 4

Income from canceled debt 3
Insolvency 6
Reduction of tax attributes 10

Qualified principal residence
indebtedness 9
Examples 9
Qualified real property business
indebtedness 9
Reduction of tax attributes 12

L

R

I

Limits:
Excluded farm debt 8
Qualified real property business
indebtedness 9
Loans:
Student 4

M
Missing children, photographs
of 2
Mortgage Debt Relief Act
(See Qualified Principal
Residence Indebtedness)

P
Principal residence
indebtedness 9
Publications (See Tax help)

Q
Qualified farm indebtedness 8
Reduction of tax attributes 12

Real property business
indebtedness 9
Recapture:
Basis reductions 11
Repossessions 12

S
Stockholder debts 4
Student loans 4

T
Tax attributes, reduction of:
Bankruptcy 10
Insolvency 10
Qualified farm indebtedness 12
Qualified Principal Residence
Indebtedness 10
Qualified real property business
indebtedness 12
Tax help 15

Publication 4681 (2025)

