
 § 1024.41 Loss mitigation procedures.
 This version is the current regulation
 View all versions of this regulation
 Search this regulation
 Regulation X
{#a} (a) Enforcement and limitations. A borrower may enforce the provisions of this section pursuant to section 6(f) of RESPA (12 U.S.C. 2605(f)). Nothing in § 1024.41 imposes a duty on a servicer to provide any borrower with any specific loss mitigation option. Nothing in § 1024.41 should be construed to create a right for a borrower to enforce the terms of any agreement between a servicer and the owner or assignee of a mortgage loan, including with respect to the evaluation for, or offer of, any loss mitigation option or to eliminate any such right that may exist pursuant to applicable law.
{#b} (b) Receipt of a loss mitigation application —
{#de38a82277268f404065254dafd5d4914192d0c3b36d54d4642f206f} 
 Official interpretation of 41(b) Receipt of a loss mitigation application.
{#41-b-Interp-1} 1. Successors in interest. 
{#41-b-Interp-1-i} i. If a servicer receives a loss mitigation application from a potential successor in interest before confirming that person's identity and ownership interest in the property, the servicer may, but need not, review and evaluate the loss mitigation application in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1024.41. If a servicer complies with the requirements of § 1024.41 for a complete loss mitigation application submitted by a potential successor in interest before confirming that person's identity and ownership interest in the property, § 1024.41(i)'s limitation on duplicative requests applies to that person, provided the servicer's evaluation of loss mitigation options available to the person would not have resulted in a different determination due to the person's confirmation as a successor in interest if it had been conducted after the servicer confirmed the person's status as a successor in interest.
{#41-b-Interp-1-ii} ii. If a servicer receives a loss mitigation application from a potential successor in interest and elects not to review and evaluate the loss mitigation application before confirming that person's identity and ownership interest in the property, the servicer must preserve the loss mitigation application and all documents submitted in connection with the application, and, upon such confirmation, the servicer must review and evaluate the loss mitigation application in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1024.41 if the property is the confirmed successor in interest's principal residence and the procedures set forth in § 1024.41 are otherwise applicable. For purposes of § 1024.41, the servicer must treat the loss mitigation application as if it had been received on the date that the servicer confirmed the successor in interest's status. If the loss mitigation application is incomplete at the time of confirmation because documents submitted by the successor in interest became stale or invalid after they were submitted and confirmation is 45 days or more before a foreclosure sale, the servicer must identify the stale or invalid documents that need to be updated in a notice pursuant to § 1024.41(b)(2).
 See interpretation of 41(b) Receipt of a loss mitigation application.
 in Supplement I
{#b-1} (1) Complete loss mitigation application. A complete loss mitigation application means an application in connection with which a servicer has received all the information that the servicer requires from a borrower in evaluating applications for the loss mitigation options available to the borrower. A servicer shall exercise reasonable diligence in obtaining documents and information to complete a loss mitigation application.
{#083413d221ff9a97eb172cb2b43409cfa754b401bb7d9cff0e1b5f4f} 
 Official interpretation of 41(b)(1) Complete loss mitigation application.
{#41-b-1-Interp-1} 1. In general. A servicer has flexibility to establish its own application requirements and to decide the type and amount of information it will require from borrowers applying for loss mitigation options. In the course of gathering documents and information from a borrower to complete a loss mitigation application, a servicer may stop collecting documents and information for a particular loss mitigation option after receiving information confirming that, pursuant to any requirements established by the owner or assignee of the borrower's mortgage loan, the borrower is ineligible for that option. A servicer may not stop collecting documents and information for any loss mitigation option based solely upon the borrower's stated preference but may stop collecting documents and information for any loss mitigation option based on the borrower's stated preference in conjunction with other information, as prescribed by any requirements established by the owner or assignee. A servicer must continue to exercise reasonable diligence to obtain documents and information from the borrower that the servicer requires to evaluate the borrower as to all other loss mitigation options available to the borrower. For example:
{#41-b-1-Interp-1-i} i. Assume a particular loss mitigation option is only available for borrowers whose mortgage loans were originated before a specific date. Once a servicer receives documents or information confirming that a mortgage loan was originated after that date, the servicer may stop collecting documents or information from the borrower that the servicer would use to evaluate the borrower for that loss mitigation option, but the servicer must continue its efforts to obtain documents and information from the borrower that the servicer requires to evaluate the borrower for all other available loss mitigation options.
{#41-b-1-Interp-1-ii} ii. Assume applicable requirements established by the owner or assignee of the mortgage loan provide that a borrower is ineligible for home retention loss mitigation options if the borrower states a preference for a short sale and provides evidence of another applicable hardship, such as military Permanent Change of Station orders or an employment transfer more than 50 miles away. If the borrower indicates a preference for a short sale or, more generally, not to retain the property, the servicer may not stop collecting documents and information from the borrower pertaining to available home retention options solely because the borrower has indicated such a preference, but the servicer may stop collecting such documents and information once the servicer receives information confirming that the borrower has an applicable hardship under requirements established by the owner or assignee, such as military Permanent Change of Station orders or employment transfer.
{#41-b-1-Interp-2} 2. When an inquiry or prequalification request becomes an application. A servicer is encouraged to provide borrowers with information about loss mitigation programs. If in giving information to the borrower, the borrower expresses an interest in applying for a loss mitigation option and provides information the servicer would evaluate in connection with a loss mitigation application, the borrower's inquiry or prequalification request has become a loss mitigation application. A loss mitigation application is considered expansively and includes any “prequalification” for a loss mitigation option. For example, if a borrower requests that a servicer determine if the borrower is “prequalified” for a loss mitigation program by evaluating the borrower against preliminary criteria to determine eligibility for a loss mitigation option, the request constitutes a loss mitigation application.
{#41-b-1-Interp-3} 3. Examples of inquiries that are not applications. The following examples illustrate situations in which only an inquiry has taken place and no loss mitigation application has been submitted:
{#41-b-1-Interp-3-i} i. A borrower calls to ask about loss mitigation options and servicer personnel explain the loss mitigation options available to the borrower and the criteria for determining the borrower's eligibility for any such loss mitigation option. The borrower does not, however, provide any information that a servicer would consider for evaluating a loss mitigation application.
{#41-b-1-Interp-3-ii} ii. A borrower calls to ask about the process for applying for a loss mitigation option but the borrower does not provide any information that a servicer would consider for evaluating a loss mitigation application.
{#41-b-1-Interp-4} 4. Although a servicer has flexibility to establish its own requirements regarding the documents and information necessary for a loss mitigation application, the servicer must act with reasonable diligence to collect information needed to complete the application. A servicer must request information necessary to make a loss mitigation application complete promptly after receiving the loss mitigation application. Reasonable diligence for purposes of § 1024.41(b)(1) includes, without limitation, the following actions:
{#41-b-1-Interp-4-i} i. A servicer requires additional information from the applicant, such as an address or a telephone number to verify employment; the servicer contacts the applicant promptly to obtain such information after receiving a loss mitigation application;
{#41-b-1-Interp-4-ii} ii. Servicing for a mortgage loan is transferred to a servicer and the borrower makes an incomplete loss mitigation application to the transferee servicer after the transfer; the transferee servicer reviews documents provided by the transferor servicer to determine if information required to make the loss mitigation application complete is contained within documents transferred by the transferor servicer to the servicer; and
{#41-b-1-Interp-4-iii} iii. A servicer offers a borrower a short-term payment forbearance program or a short-term repayment plan based on an evaluation of an incomplete loss mitigation application and provides the borrower the written notice pursuant to § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii). If the borrower remains in compliance with the short-term payment forbearance program or short-term repayment plan, and the borrower does not request further assistance, the servicer may suspend reasonable diligence efforts until near the end of the payment forbearance program or repayment plan. However, if the borrower fails to comply with the program or plan or requests further assistance, the servicer must immediately resume reasonable diligence efforts. Near the end of a short-term payment forbearance program offered based on an evaluation of an incomplete loss mitigation application pursuant to § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii), and prior to the end of the forbearance period, if the borrower remains delinquent, a servicer must contact the borrower to determine if the borrower wishes to complete the loss mitigation application and proceed with a full loss mitigation evaluation.
{#41-b-1-Interp-4-iv} iv. If the borrower is in a short-term payment forbearance program made available to borrowers experiencing a COVID-19-related hardship, including a payment forbearance program made pursuant to the Coronavirus Economic Stability Act, section 4022 (15 U.S.C. 9056), that was offered to the borrower based on evaluation of an incomplete application, and the borrower remains delinquent, a servicer must contact the borrower no later than 30 days before the scheduled end of the forbearance period to determine if the borrower wishes to complete the loss mitigation application and proceed with a full loss mitigation evaluation. If the borrower requests further assistance, the servicer must exercise reasonable diligence to complete the application before the end of the forbearance period. 
{#41-b-1-Interp-5} 5. Information not in the borrower's control. A loss mitigation application is complete when a borrower provides all information required from the borrower notwithstanding that additional information may be required by a servicer that is not in the control of a borrower. For example, if a servicer requires a consumer report for a loss mitigation evaluation, a loss mitigation application is considered complete if a borrower has submitted all information required from the borrower without regard to whether a servicer has obtained a consumer report that a servicer has requested from a consumer reporting agency.
 See interpretation of 41(b)(1) Complete loss mitigation application.
 in Supplement I
{#b-2} (2) Review of loss mitigation application submission —
{#7ae2562961d72df6ca35db9818a90553ee87215eec5e8e9b1b9521e1} 
 Official interpretation of 41(b)(2)Review of loss mitigation application submission.
 See interpretation of 41(b)(2)Review of loss mitigation application submission.
 in Supplement I
{#b-2-i} (i) Requirements. If a servicer receives a loss mitigation application 45 days or more before a foreclosure sale, a servicer shall:
{#c255a7e51dba77c1dd175dc1f0b06049555691d556f880dde30ccf8c} 
 Official interpretation of 41(b)(2)(i) Requirements.
{#41-b-2-i-Interp-1} 1. Foreclosure sale not scheduled. For purposes of § 1024.41(b)(2)(i), if no foreclosure sale has been scheduled as of the date a servicer receives a loss mitigation application, the servicer must treat the application as having been received 45 days or more before any foreclosure sale.
 See interpretation of 41(b)(2)(i) Requirements.
 in Supplement I
{#b-2-i-A} (A) Promptly upon receipt of a loss mitigation application, review the loss mitigation application to determine if the loss mitigation application is complete; and
{#b-2-i-B} (B) Notify the borrower in writing within 5 days (excluding legal public holidays, Saturdays, and Sundays) after receiving the loss mitigation application that the servicer acknowledges receipt of the loss mitigation application and that the servicer has determined that the loss mitigation application is either complete or incomplete. If a loss mitigation application is incomplete, the notice shall state the additional documents and information the borrower must submit to make the loss mitigation application complete and the applicable date pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. The notice to the borrower shall include a statement that the borrower should consider contacting servicers of any other mortgage loans secured by the same property to discuss available loss mitigation options.
{#fab43a7c4585ee4fbd32c7025cf72006cf21fa5f979d79bfe4e8556e} 
 Official interpretation of Paragraph 41(b)(2)(i)(B).
{#41-b-2-i-B-Interp-1} 1. Later discovery of additional information required to evaluate application. Even if a servicer has informed a borrower that an application is complete (or notified the borrower of specific information necessary to complete an incomplete application), if the servicer determines, in the course of evaluating the loss mitigation application submitted by the borrower, that additional information or a corrected version of a previously submitted document is required, the servicer must promptly request the additional information or corrected document from the borrower pursuant to the reasonable diligence obligation in § 1024.41(b)(1). See § 1024.41(c)(2)(iv) addressing facially complete applications.
 See interpretation of Paragraph 41(b)(2)(i)(B).
 in Supplement I
{#b-2-ii} (ii) Time period disclosure. The notice required pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section must include a reasonable date by which the borrower should submit the documents and information necessary to make the loss mitigation application complete.
{#c775e941b332ed8e39a537b741293d299b6d9822d2809e42e9b1ceb1} 
 Official interpretation of 41(b)(2)(ii) Time period disclosure.
{#41-b-2-ii-Interp-1} 1. Thirty days is generally reasonable. In general and subject to the restrictions described in comments 41(b)(2)(ii)-2 and -3, a servicer complies with the requirement to include a reasonable date in the written notice required under § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B) by including a date that is 30 days after the date the servicer provides the written notice.
{#41-b-2-ii-Interp-2} 2. No later than the next milestone. For purposes of § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii), subject to the restriction described in comment 41(b)(2)(ii)-3, the reasonable date must be no later than the earliest of:
{#41-b-2-ii-Interp-2-i} i. The date by which any document or information submitted by a borrower will be considered stale or invalid pursuant to any requirements applicable to any loss mitigation option available to the borrower;
{#41-b-2-ii-Interp-2-ii} ii. The date that is the 120th day of the borrower's delinquency;
{#41-b-2-ii-Interp-2-iii} iii. The date that is 90 days before a foreclosure sale;
{#41-b-2-ii-Interp-2-iv} iv. The date that is 38 days before a foreclosure sale.
{#41-b-2-ii-Interp-3} 3. Seven-day minimum. A reasonable date for purposes of § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii) must never be less than seven days from the date on which the servicer provides the written notice pursuant to § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B).
 See interpretation of 41(b)(2)(ii) Time period disclosure.
 in Supplement I
{#b-3} (3) Determining protections. To the extent a determination of whether protections under this section apply to a borrower is made on the basis of the number of days between when a complete loss mitigation application is received and when a foreclosure sale occurs, such determination shall be made as of the date a complete loss mitigation application is received.
{#7c264b59a0ebea73492a84857aa48a414a1677661718a928f0ad1769} 
 Official interpretation of 41(b)(3) Determining Protections.
{#41-b-3-Interp-1} 1. Foreclosure sale not scheduled. If no foreclosure sale has been scheduled as of the date that a complete loss mitigation application is received, the application is considered to have been received more than 90 days before any foreclosure sale.
{#41-b-3-Interp-2} 2. Foreclosure sale re-scheduled. The protections under § 1024.41 that have been determined to apply to a borrower pursuant to § 1024.41(b)(3) remain in effect thereafter, even if a foreclosure sale is later scheduled or rescheduled.
 See interpretation of 41(b)(3) Determining Protections.
 in Supplement I
{#c} (c) Evaluation of loss mitigation applications —
{#624ee2f92dc2880a16e889c0b4621171e0ecd168ca11c3efbfd49dba} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c) Evaluation of loss mitigation applications.
 See interpretation of 41(c) Evaluation of loss mitigation applications.
 in Supplement I
{#c-1} (1) Complete loss mitigation application. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, if a servicer receives a complete loss mitigation application more than 37 days before a foreclosure sale, then, within 30 days of receiving the complete loss mitigation application, a servicer shall:
{#44534fc91607016e3bf897d605e661e142f2d9f68f9c3231fe7f80c6} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c)(1) Complete loss mitigation application.
{#41-c-1-Interp-1} 1. Definition of “evaluation.” The conduct of a servicer's evaluation with respect to any loss mitigation option is in the sole discretion of a servicer. A servicer meets the requirements of § 1024.41(c)(1)(i) if the servicer makes a determination regarding the borrower's eligibility for a loss mitigation program. Consistent with § 1024.41(a), because nothing in section 1024.41 should be construed to permit a borrower to enforce the terms of any agreement between a servicer and the owner or assignee of a mortgage loan, including with respect to the evaluation for, or provision of, any loss mitigation option, § 1024.41(c)(1) does not require that an evaluation meet any standard other than the discretion of the servicer.
{#41-c-1-Interp-2} 2. Loss mitigation options available to a borrower. The loss mitigation options available to a borrower are those options offered by an owner or assignee of the borrower's mortgage loan. Loss mitigation options administered by a servicer for an owner or assignee of a mortgage loan other than the owner or assignee of the borrower's mortgage loan are not available to the borrower solely because such options are administered by the servicer. For example:
{#41-c-1-Interp-2-i} i. A servicer services mortgage loans for two different owners or assignees of mortgage loans. Those entities each have different loss mitigation programs. loss mitigation options not offered by the owner or assignee of the borrower's mortgage loan are not available to the borrower; or
{#41-c-1-Interp-2-ii} ii. The owner or assignee of a borrower's mortgage loan has established pilot programs, temporary programs, or programs that are limited by the number of participating borrowers. Such loss mitigation options are available to a borrower. However, a servicer evaluates whether a borrower is eligible for any such program consistent with criteria established by an owner or assignee of a mortgage loan. For example, if an owner or assignee has limited a pilot program to a certain geographic area or to a limited number of participants, and the servicer determines that a borrower is not eligible based on any such requirement, the servicer shall inform the borrower that the investor requirement for the program is the basis for the denial.
{#41-c-1-Interp-3} 3. Offer of a non-home retention option. A servicer's offer of a non-home retention option may be conditional upon receipt of further information not in the borrower's possession and necessary to establish the parameters of a servicer's offer. For example, a servicer complies with the requirement for evaluating the borrower for a short sale option if the servicer offers the borrower the opportunity to enter into a listing or marketing period agreement but indicates that specifics of an acceptable short sale transaction may be subject to further information obtained from an appraisal or title search.
{#41-c-1-Interp-4} 4. Other notices. A servicer may combine other notices required by applicable law, including, without limitation, a notice with respect to an adverse action required by Regulation B, 12 CFR part 1002, or a notice required pursuant to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, with the notice required pursuant to § 1024.41(c)(1), unless otherwise prohibited by applicable law.
 See interpretation of 41(c)(1) Complete loss mitigation application.
 in Supplement I
{#c-1-i} (i) Evaluate the borrower for all loss mitigation options available to the borrower; and
{#c-1-ii} (ii) Provide the borrower with a notice in writing stating the servicer's determination of which loss mitigation options, if any, it will offer to the borrower on behalf of the owner or assignee of the mortgage. The servicer shall include in this notice the amount of time the borrower has to accept or reject an offer of a loss mitigation program as provided for in paragraph (e) of this section, if applicable, and a notification, if applicable, that the borrower has the right to appeal the denial of any loan modification option as well as the amount of time the borrower has to file such an appeal and any requirements for making an appeal, as provided for in paragraph (h) of this section.
{#c-2} (2) Incomplete loss mitigation application evaluation —
{#d0b279d265ee01329c7ed82449d8ce1053eea86dcb16f0e6ee50d343} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c)(2) Incomplete loss mitigation application evaluation.
 See interpretation of 41(c)(2) Incomplete loss mitigation application evaluation.
 in Supplement I
{#c-2-i} (i) In general. Except as set forth in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii), (iii), (v), and (vi) of this section, a servicer shall not evade the requirement to evaluate a complete loss mitigation application for all loss mitigation options available to the borrower by offering a loss mitigation option based upon an evaluation of any information provided by a borrower in connection with an incomplete loss mitigation application.
{#a86ed69a3278ee17f4ee2677ba9c0011b5a3314bb57182106a0bc93f} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c)(2)(i) In general.
{#41-c-2-i-Interp-1} 1. Offer of a loss mitigation option without an evaluation of a loss mitigation application. Nothing in § 1024.41(c)(2)(i) prohibits a servicer from offering loss mitigation options to a borrower who has not submitted a loss mitigation application. Further, nothing in § 1024.41(c)(2)(i) prohibits a servicer from offering a loss mitigation option to a borrower who has submitted an incomplete loss mitigation application where the offer of the loss mitigation option is not based on any evaluation of information submitted by the borrower in connection with such loss mitigation application. For example, if a servicer offers trial loan modification programs to all borrowers who become 150 days delinquent without an application or consideration of any information provided by a borrower in connection with a loss mitigation application, the servicer's offer of any such program does not violate § 1024.41(c)(2)(i), and a servicer is not required to comply with § 1024.41 with respect to any such program, because the offer of the loss mitigation option is not based on an evaluation of a loss mitigation application.
{#41-c-2-i-Interp-2} 2. Servicer discretion. Although a review of a borrower's incomplete loss mitigation application is within a servicer's discretion, and is not required by § 1024.41, a servicer may be required separately, in accordance with policies and procedures maintained pursuant to § 1024.38(b)(2)(v), to properly evaluate a borrower who submits an application for a loss mitigation option for all loss mitigation options available to the borrower pursuant to any requirements established by the owner or assignee of the borrower's mortgage loan. Such evaluation may be subject to requirements applicable to loss mitigation applications otherwise considered incomplete pursuant to § 1024.41.
 See interpretation of 41(c)(2)(i) In general.
 in Supplement I
{#c-2-ii} (ii) Reasonable time. Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, if a servicer has exercised reasonable diligence in obtaining documents and information to complete a loss mitigation application, but a loss mitigation application remains incomplete for a significant period of time under the circumstances without further progress by a borrower to make the loss mitigation application complete, a servicer may, in its discretion, evaluate an incomplete loss mitigation application and offer a borrower a loss mitigation option. Any such evaluation and offer is not subject to the requirements of this section and shall not constitute an evaluation of a single complete loss mitigation application for purposes of paragraph (i) of this section.
{#ef294f11e05c2618c24bf90559957c6ef5c5681669578d00cfbe6c03} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c)(2)(ii) Reasonable time.
{#41-c-2-ii-Interp-1} 1. Significant period of time. A significant period of time under the circumstances may include consideration of the timing of the foreclosure process. For example, if a borrower is less than 50 days before a foreclosure sale, an application remaining incomplete for 15 days may be a more significant period of time under the circumstances than if the borrower is still less than 120 days delinquent on a mortgage loan obligation.
 See interpretation of 41(c)(2)(ii) Reasonable time.
 in Supplement I
{#c-2-iii} (iii) Short-term loss mitigation options. Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, a servicer may offer a short-term payment forbearance program or a short-term repayment plan to a borrower based upon an evaluation of an incomplete loss mitigation application. Promptly after offering a payment forbearance program or a repayment plan under this paragraph (c)(2)(iii), unless the borrower has rejected the offer, the servicer must provide the borrower a written notice stating the specific payment terms and duration of the program or plan, that the servicer offered the program or plan based on an evaluation of an incomplete application, that other loss mitigation options may be available, and that the borrower has the option to submit a complete loss mitigation application to receive an evaluation for all loss mitigation options available to the borrower regardless of whether the borrower accepts the program or plan. A servicer shall not make the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process, and shall not move for foreclosure judgment or order of sale or conduct a foreclosure sale, if a borrower is performing pursuant to the terms of a payment forbearance program or repayment plan offered pursuant to this paragraph (c)(2)(iii). A servicer may offer a short-term payment forbearance program in conjunction with a short-term repayment plan pursuant to this paragraph (c)(2)(iii).
{#53479cd695b4608be27c34a5563f94082e634170ab0ec20fdd6e2798} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c)(2)(iii) Short-term loss mitigation options.
{#41-c-2-iii-Interp-1} 1. Short-term payment forbearance program. The exemption in § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii) applies to, among other things, short-term payment forbearance programs. For purposes of § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii), a payment forbearance program is a loss mitigation option pursuant to which a servicer allows a borrower to forgo making certain payments or portions of payments for a period of time. A short-term payment forbearance program for purposes of § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii) allows the forbearance of payments due over periods of no more than six months. Such a program would be short-term regardless of the amount of time a servicer allows the borrower to make up the missing payments.
{#41-c-2-iii-Interp-2} 2. Short-term loss mitigation options and incomplete applications. Section 1024.41(c)(2)(iii) allows a servicer to offer a borrower a short-term payment forbearance program or a short-term repayment plan based on an evaluation of an incomplete loss mitigation application. The servicer must still comply with the other requirements of § 1024.41 with respect to the incomplete loss mitigation application, including the requirement in § 1024.41(b)(2) to review the application to determine if it is complete, the requirement in § 1024.41(b)(1) to exercise reasonable diligence in obtaining documents and information to complete a loss mitigation application (see comment 41(b)(1)-4.iii), and the requirement in § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B) to provide the borrower with written notice that the servicer acknowledges the receipt of the application and has determined that the application is incomplete.
{#41-c-2-iii-Interp-3} 3. Short-term loss mitigation options and complete applications. Even if a servicer offers a borrower a short-term payment forbearance program or a short-term repayment plan based on an evaluation of an incomplete loss mitigation application, the servicer must still comply with all applicable requirements in § 1024.41 if the borrower completes a loss mitigation application.
{#41-c-2-iii-Interp-4} 4. Short-term repayment plan. The exemption in § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii) applies to, among other things, short-term repayment plans. For purposes of § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii), a repayment plan is a loss mitigation option with terms under which a borrower would repay all past due payments over a specified period of time to bring the mortgage loan account current. A short-term repayment plan for purposes of § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii) allows for the repayment of no more than three months of past due payments and allows a borrower to repay the arrearage over a period lasting no more than six months.
{#41-c-2-iii-Interp-5} 5. Specific payment terms and duration. i. General requirement. Section 1024.41(c)(2)(iii) requires a servicer to provide the borrower a written notice stating, among other things, the specific payment terms and duration of a short-term payment forbearance program or a short-term repayment plan offered based on an evaluation of an incomplete application. Generally, a servicer complies with these requirements if the written notice states the amount of each payment due during the program or plan, the date by which the borrower must make each payment, and whether the mortgage loan will be current at the end of the program or plan if the borrower complies with the program or plan.
{#41-c-2-iii-Interp-ii} ii. Disclosure of payment amounts that may change. At the time a servicer provides the written notice pursuant to § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii), if the servicer lacks information necessary to determine the amount of a specific payment due during the program or plan (for example, because the borrower's interest rate will change to an unknown rate based on an index or because an escrow account computation year as defined in § 1024.17(b) will end and the borrower's escrow payment might change), the servicer complies with the requirement to disclose the specific payment terms and duration of a short-term payment forbearance program or short-term repayment plan if the disclosures are based on the best information reasonably available to the servicer at the time the notice is provided and the written notice identifies which payment amounts may change, states that such payment amounts are estimates, and states the general reason that such payment amounts might change. For example, if an escrow account computation year as defined in § 1024.17(b) will end during a borrower's short-term repayment plan, the written notice complies with § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii) if it identifies the payment amounts that may change, states that those payment amounts are estimates, and states that the affected payments might change because the borrower's escrow payment might change.
{#41-c-2-iii-Interp-6} 6. Timing of notice. Generally, a servicer acts promptly to provide the written notice required by § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii) if the servicer provides such written notice no later than five days (excluding legal public holidays, Saturdays, and Sundays) after offering the borrower a short-term payment forbearance program or short-term repayment plan. A servicer may provide the written notice at the same time the servicer offers the borrower the program or plan. A written offer that contains all the required elements of the written notice also satisfies § 1024.41(c)(2)(iii).
 See interpretation of 41(c)(2)(iii) Short-term loss mitigation options.
 in Supplement I
{#c-2-iv} (iv) Facially complete application. A loss mitigation application shall be considered facially complete when a borrower submits all the missing documents and information as stated in the notice required under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, when no additional information is requested in such notice, or once the servicer is required to provide the borrower a written notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section. If the servicer later discovers that additional information or corrections to a previously submitted document are required to complete the application, the servicer must promptly request the missing information or corrected documents and treat the application as complete for the purposes of paragraphs (f)(2) and (g) of this section until the borrower is given a reasonable opportunity to complete the application. If the borrower completes the application within this period, the application shall be considered complete as of the date it first became facially complete, for the purposes of paragraphs (d), (e), (f)(2), (g), and (h) of this section, and as of the date the application was actually complete for the purposes of this paragraph (c). A servicer that complies with this paragraph (c)(2)(iv) will be deemed to have fulfilled its obligation to provide an accurate notice under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
{#85296d4670a5495a3d08b6d35bdfff814a01ad2d4758f8e6ff14cb77} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c)(2)(iv) Facially complete application.
{#41-c-2-iv-Interp-1} 1. Reasonable opportunity. Section 1024.41(c)(2)(iv) requires a servicer to treat a facially complete application as complete for the purposes of paragraphs (f)(2) and (g) until the borrower has been given a reasonable opportunity to complete the application. A reasonable opportunity requires the servicer to notify the borrower of what additional information or corrected documents are required, and to afford the borrower sufficient time to gather the information and documentation necessary to complete the application and submit it to the servicer. The amount of time that is sufficient for this purpose will depend on the facts and circumstances.
{#41-c-2-iv-Interp-2} 2. Borrower fails to complete the application. If the borrower fails to complete the application within the timeframe provided under § 1024.41(c)(2)(iv), the application shall be considered incomplete.
 See interpretation of 41(c)(2)(iv) Facially complete application.
 in Supplement I
{#c-2-v} (v) Certain COVID-19-related loss mitigation options. 
{#c-2-v-A} (A) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, a servicer may offer a borrower a loss mitigation option based upon evaluation of an incomplete application, provided that all of the following criteria are met:
{#c-2-v-A-1} (1) The loss mitigation option permits the borrower to delay paying covered amounts until the mortgage loan is refinanced, the mortgaged property is sold, the term of the mortgage loan ends, or, for a mortgage loan insured by the Federal Housing Administration, the mortgage insurance terminates. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(v)(A)(1), “covered amounts” includes, without limitation, all principal and interest payments forborne under a payment forbearance program made available to borrowers experiencing a COVID-19 related hardship, including a payment forbearance program made pursuant to the Coronavirus Economic Stabilization Act, section 4022 (15 U.S.C. 9056); it also includes, without limitation, all other principal and interest payments that are due and unpaid by a borrower experiencing COVID-19 related hardship. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(v)(A)(1), “the term of the mortgage loan” means the term of the mortgage loan according to the obligation between the parties in effect when the borrower is offered the loss mitigation option. 
{#c-2-v-A-2} (2) Any amounts that the borrower may delay paying as described in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(A)(1) of this section do not accrue interest; the servicer does not charge any fee in connection with the loss mitigation option; and the servicer waives all existing late charges, penalties, stop payment fees, or similar charges promptly upon the borrower’s acceptance of the loss mitigation option.
{#c-2-v-A-3} (3) The borrower’s acceptance of an offer made pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(v)(A) of this section ends any preexisting delinquency on the mortgage loan.
{#c-2-v-B} (B) Once the borrower accepts an offer made pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(v)(A) of this section, the servicer is not required to comply with paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section with regard to any loss mitigation application the borrower submitted prior to the servicer’s offer of the loss mitigation option described in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(A) of this section.
{#c-2-vi} (vi) Certain COVID-19-related loan modification options.
{#c-2-vi-A} (A) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, a servicer may offer a borrower a loan modification based upon evaluation of an incomplete application, provided that all of the following criteria are met:
{#c-2-vi-A-1} (1) The loan modification extends the term of the loan by no more than 480 months from the date the loan modification is effective and, for the entire modified term, does not cause the borrower’s monthly required principal and interest payment to increase beyond the monthly principal and interest payment required prior to the loan modification. 
{#c-2-vi-A-2} (2) If the loan modification permits the borrower to delay paying certain amounts until the mortgage loan is refinanced, the mortgaged property is sold, the loan modification matures, or, for a mortgage loan insured by the Federal Housing Administration, the mortgage insurance terminates, those amounts do not accrue interest. 
{#c-2-vi-A-3} (3) The loan modification is made available to borrowers experiencing a COVID-19-related hardship. 
{#c-2-vi-A-4} (4) Either the borrower’s acceptance of an offer pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A) of this section ends any preexisting delinquency on the mortgage loan or the loan modification offered pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A) of this section is designed to end any preexisting delinquency on the mortgage loan upon the borrower satisfying the servicer’s requirements for completing a trial loan modification plan and accepting a permanent loan modification.
{#c-2-vi-A-5} (5) The servicer does not charge any fee in connection with the loan modification, and the servicer waives all existing late charges, penalties, stop payment fees, or similar charges that were incurred on or after March 1, 2020, promptly upon the borrower’s acceptance of the loan modification. 
{#c-2-vi-B} (B) Once the borrower accepts an offer made pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, the servicer is not required to comply with paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section with regard to any loss mitigation application the borrower submitted prior to the servicer’s offer of the loan modification described in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A) of this section. However, if the borrower fails to perform under a trial loan modification plan offered pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A) of this section or requests further assistance, the servicer must immediately resume reasonable diligence efforts as required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section with regard to any loss mitigation application the borrower submitted prior to the servicer’s offer of the trial loan modification plan and must provide the borrower with the notice required by paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section with regard to the most recent loss mitigation application the borrower submitted prior to the servicer’s offer of the loan modification described in paragraph (c)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, unless the servicer has already provided such notice to the borrower.
{#c-3} (3) Notice of complete application. 
{#131f0087415db59c7439ca28911a914a02e63643f0417de61b85ac50} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c)(3) Notice of complete application.
 See interpretation of 41(c)(3) Notice of complete application.
 in Supplement I
{#c-3-i} (i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, within 5 days (excluding legal public holidays, Saturdays, and Sundays) after receiving a borrower's complete loss mitigation application, a servicer shall provide the borrower a written notice that sets forth the following information:
{#50540e9f32c306091bd6015343fbde25866248d9a7d9c63f197334ca} 
 Official interpretation of Paragraph 41(c)(3)(i).
{#41-c-3-i-Interp-1} 1. Completion date. A servicer complies with § 1024.41(c)(3)(i)(B) by disclosing on the notice the most recent date the servicer received the complete loss mitigation application. For example, assume that a borrower first submits a complete loss mitigation application on March 1. The servicer must disclose March 1 as the date the servicer received the application under § 1024.41(c)(3)(i)(B). Assume the servicer discovers on March 10 that it requires additional information or corrected documents to complete the application and promptly requests such additional information or documents from the borrower pursuant to § 1024.41(c)(2)(iv). If the borrower subsequently completes the application on March 21, the servicer must provide another notice in accordance with § 1024.41(c)(3)(i) and disclose March 21 as the date the servicer received the complete application. See comment 41(c)(3)(i)-3.
{#41-c-3-i-Interp-2} 2. First notice or filing. Section 1024.41(c)(3)(i)(D)(1) and (2) sets forth different requirements depending on whether the servicer has made the first notice or filing under applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process at the time the borrower submits a complete loss mitigation application. See comment 41(f)-1 for a description of whether a document is considered the first notice or filing under applicable law.
{#41-c-3-i-Interp-3} 3. Additional notices. Except as provided in § 1024.41(c)(3)(ii), § 1024.41(c)(3)(i) requires a servicer to provide a written notice every time a loss mitigation application becomes complete. For example, assume that a borrower first submits a complete loss mitigation application on March 1, and the servicer provides the notice under § 1024.41(c)(3)(i). Assume the servicer discovers on March 10 that it requires additional information or corrected documents regarding a source of income that the borrower previously identified. The servicer must promptly request such additional information or documents from the borrower pursuant to § 1024.41(c)(2)(iv). If the borrower subsequently completes the application on March 21, the servicer must provide another notice in accordance with § 1024.41(c)(3)(i), unless an exception applies under § 1024.41(c)(3)(ii). See comment 41(c)(3)(i)-1.
 See interpretation of Paragraph 41(c)(3)(i).
 in Supplement I
{#c-3-i-A} (A) That the loss mitigation application is complete;
{#c-3-i-B} (B) The date the servicer received the complete application;
{#c-3-i-C} (C) That the servicer expects to complete its evaluation within 30 days of the date it received the complete application;
{#c-3-i-D} (D) That the borrower is entitled to certain foreclosure protections because the servicer has received the complete application, and, as applicable, either:
{#c-3-i-D-1} (1) If the servicer has not made the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process, that the servicer cannot make the first notice or filing required to commence or initiate the foreclosure process under applicable law before evaluating the borrower's complete application; or
{#c-3-i-D-2} (2) If the servicer has made the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process, that the servicer has begun the foreclosure process, and that the servicer cannot conduct a foreclosure sale before evaluating the borrower's complete application;
{#c-3-i-E} (E) That the servicer may need additional information at a later date to evaluate the application, in which case the servicer will request that information from the borrower and give the borrower a reasonable opportunity to submit it, the evaluation process may take longer, and the foreclosure protections could end if the servicer does not receive the information as requested; and
{#c-3-i-F} (F) That the borrower may be entitled to additional protections under State or Federal law.
{#c-3-ii} (ii) A servicer is not required to provide a notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section if:
{#c-3-ii-A} (A) The servicer has already provided the borrower a notice under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section informing the borrower that the application is complete and the servicer has not subsequently requested additional information or a corrected version of a previously submitted document from the borrower pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section;
{#c-3-ii-B} (B) The application was not complete or facially complete more than 37 days before a foreclosure sale; or
{#c-3-ii-C} (C) The servicer has already provided the borrower a notice regarding the application under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
{#c-4} (4) Information not in the borrower's control —
{#c55cbf7ec825912f32c0d50c702a192130772c984035af56b7e52db8} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c)(4) Information not in the borrower's control.
 See interpretation of 41(c)(4) Information not in the borrower's control.
 in Supplement I
{#c-4-i} (i) Reasonable diligence. If a servicer requires documents or information not in the borrower's control to determine which loss mitigation options, if any, it will offer to the borrower, the servicer must exercise reasonable diligence in obtaining such documents or information.
{#5ffe0f0fb82daaae29ad7aa5ba2a6c6beb1a2b3b1bf3f20dbea725f5} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c)(4)(i) Diligence requirements.
{#41-c-4-i-Interp-1} 1. During the first 30 days following receipt of a complete loss mitigation application. Section 1024.41(c)(4)(i) requires a servicer to act with reasonable diligence to obtain documents or information not in the borrower's control, which includes information in the servicer's control, that the servicer requires to determine which loss mitigation options, if any, it will offer to the borrower. At a minimum and without limitation, a servicer must request such documents or information from the appropriate party:
{#41-c-4-i-Interp-1-i} i. Promptly upon determining that the servicer requires the documents or information to determine which loss mitigation options, if any, the servicer will offer the borrower; and
{#41-c-4-i-Interp-1-ii} ii. By a date that will enable the servicer to complete the evaluation within 30 days of receiving the complete loss mitigation application, as set forth in § 1024.41(c)(1), to the extent practicable.
{#41-c-4-i-Interp-2} 2. More than 30 days following receipt of a complete loss mitigation application. If a servicer has not, within 30 days of receiving a complete loss mitigation application, received the required documents or information from a party other than the borrower or the servicer, the servicer acts with reasonable diligence pursuant to § 1024.41(c)(4)(i) by heightening efforts to obtain the documents or information promptly, to minimize delay in making a determination of which loss mitigation options, if any, it will offer to the borrower. Such heightened efforts include, for example, promptly verifying that it has contacted the appropriate party and determining whether it should obtain the required documents or information from a different party.
 See interpretation of 41(c)(4)(i) Diligence requirements.
 in Supplement I
{#c-4-ii} (ii) Effect in case of delay. 
{#ff3e00b9a95d79e4b64db6c4af6180613369e7b6409f80c8d9a270e3} 
 Official interpretation of 41(c)(4)(ii) Effect in case of delay.
{#41-c-4-ii-Interp-1} 1. Third-party delay. Notwithstanding delay in receiving required documents or information from any party other than the borrower or the servicer, § 1024.41(c)(1)(i) requires a servicer to complete all possible steps in the process of evaluating a complete loss mitigation application within 30 days of receiving the complete loss mitigation application. Such steps may include requirements imposed on the servicer by third parties, such as mortgage insurance companies, guarantors, owners, or assignees. For example, if a servicer can determine a borrower's eligibility for all available loss mitigation options based on an evaluation of the borrower's complete loss mitigation application subject only to approval from the mortgage insurance company, § 1024.41(c)(1)(i) requires the servicer to do so within 30 days of receiving the complete loss mitigation application notwithstanding the need to obtain such approval before offering the borrower any loss mitigation options.
{#41-c-4-ii-Interp-2} 2. Offers not prohibited. Section 1024.41(c)(4)(ii)(A)(2) permits a servicer to deny a complete loss mitigation application (in accordance with applicable investor requirements) if, after exercising reasonable diligence to obtain the required documents or information from a party other than the borrower or the servicer, the servicer has been unable to obtain such documents or information for a significant period of time and the servicer cannot complete its determination without the required documents or information. Section 1024.41(c)(4)(ii)(A)(2) does not require a servicer to deny a complete loss mitigation application and permits a servicer to offer a borrower a loss mitigation option, even if the servicer does not obtain the requested documents or information.
 See interpretation of 41(c)(4)(ii) Effect in case of delay.
 in Supplement I
{#c-4-ii-A} (A) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A)(2) of this section, a servicer must not deny a complete loss mitigation application solely because the servicer lacks required documents or information not in the borrower's control.
{#c-4-ii-A-2} (2) If a servicer has exercised reasonable diligence to obtain required documents or information from a party other than the borrower or the servicer, but the servicer has been unable to obtain such documents or information for a significant period of time following the 30-day period identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and the servicer, in accordance with applicable requirements established by the owner or assignee of the borrower's mortgage loan, is unable to determine which loss mitigation options, if any, it will offer the borrower without such documents or information, the servicer may deny the application and provide the borrower with a written notice in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. When providing the written notice in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the servicer must also provide the borrower with a copy of the written notice required by paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
{#c-4-ii-B} (B) If a servicer is unable to make a determination within the 30-day period identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section as to which loss mitigation options, if any, it will offer to the borrower because the servicer lacks required documents or information from a party other than the borrower or the servicer, the servicer must, within such 30-day period or promptly thereafter, provide the borrower a written notice, informing the borrower:
{#c-4-ii-B-1} (1) That the servicer has not received documents or information not in the borrower's control that the servicer requires to determine which loss mitigation options, if any, it will offer to the borrower on behalf of the owner or assignee of the mortgage;
{#c-4-ii-B-2} (2) Of the specific documents or information that the servicer lacks;
{#c-4-ii-B-3} (3) That the servicer has requested such documents or information; and
{#c-4-ii-B-4} (4) That the servicer will complete its evaluation of the borrower for all available loss mitigation options promptly upon receiving the documents or information.
{#c-4-ii-C} (C) If a servicer must provide a notice required by paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, the servicer must not provide the borrower a written notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section until the servicer receives the required documents or information referenced in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B)(2) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A)(2) of this section. Upon receiving such required documents or information, the servicer must promptly provide the borrower with the written notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
{#d} (d) Denial of loan modification options. If a borrower's complete loss mitigation application is denied for any trial or permanent loan modification option available to the borrower pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, a servicer shall state in the notice sent to the borrower pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section the specific reason or reasons for the servicer's determination for each such trial or permanent loan modification option and, if applicable, that the borrower was not evaluated on other criteria.
{#534725e5fada3dac5abee9d88078da0069a9a693ec5248aba2bce2d1} 
 Official interpretation of 41(d) Denial of loan modification options.
{#41-d-Interp-1} 1. Investor requirements. If a trial or permanent loan modification option is denied because of a requirement of an owner or assignee of a mortgage loan, the specific reasons in the notice provided to the borrower must identify the owner or assignee of the mortgage loan and the requirement that is the basis of the denial. A statement that the denial of a loan modification option is based on an investor requirement, without additional information specifically identifying the relevant investor or guarantor and the specific applicable requirement, is insufficient. However, where an owner or assignee has established an evaluation criteria that sets an order ranking for evaluation of loan modification options (commonly known as a waterfall) and a borrower has qualified for a particular loan modification option in the ranking established by the owner or assignee, it is sufficient for the servicer to inform the borrower, with respect to other loan modification options ranked below any such option offered to a borrower, that the investor's requirements include the use of such a ranking and that an offer of a loan modification option necessarily results in a denial for any other loan modification options below the option for which the borrower is eligible in the ranking.
{#41-d-Interp-2} 2. Net present value calculation. If a trial or permanent loan modification is denied because of a net present value calculation, the specific reasons in the notice provided to the borrower must include the inputs used in the net present value calculation.
{#41-d-Interp-3} 3. Determination not to offer a loan modification option constitutes a denial. A servicer's determination not to offer a borrower a loan modification available to the borrower constitutes a denial of the borrower for that loan modification option, notwithstanding whether a servicer offers a borrower a different loan modification option or other loss mitigation option.
{#41-d-Interp-4} 4. Reasons listed. A servicer is required to disclose the actual reason or reasons for the denial. If a servicer's systems establish a hierarchy of eligibility criteria and reach the first criterion that causes a denial but do not evaluate the borrower based on additional criteria, a servicer complies with the rule by providing only the reason or reasons with respect to which the borrower was actually evaluated and rejected as well as notification that the borrower was not evaluated on other criteria. A servicer is not required to determine or disclose whether a borrower would have been denied on the basis of additional criteria if such criteria were not actually considered.
 See interpretation of 41(d) Denial of loan modification options.
 in Supplement I
{#e} (e) Borrower response —
{#e-1} (1) In general. Subject to paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, if a complete loss mitigation application is received 90 days or more before a foreclosure sale, a servicer may require that a borrower accept or reject an offer of a loss mitigation option no earlier than 14 days after the servicer provides the offer of a loss mitigation option to the borrower. If a complete loss mitigation application is received less than 90 days before a foreclosure sale, but more than 37 days before a foreclosure sale, a servicer may require that a borrower accept or reject an offer of a loss mitigation option no earlier than 7 days after the servicer provides the offer of a loss mitigation option to the borrower.
{#e-2} (2) Rejection —
{#e-2-i} (i) In general. Except as set forth in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, a servicer may deem a borrower that has not accepted an offer of a loss mitigation option within the deadline established pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section to have rejected the offer of a loss mitigation option.
{#e-2-ii} (ii) Trial Loan Modification Plan. A borrower who does not satisfy the servicer's requirements for accepting a trial loan modification plan, but submits the payments that would be owed pursuant to any such plan within the deadline established pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section, shall be provided a reasonable period of time to fulfill any remaining requirements of the servicer for acceptance of the trial loan modification plan beyond the deadline established pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
{#e-2-iii} (iii) Interaction with appeal process. If a borrower makes an appeal pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section, the borrower's deadline for accepting a loss mitigation option offered pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section shall be extended until 14 days after the servicer provides the notice required pursuant to paragraph (h)(4) of this section.
{#f} (f) Prohibition on foreclosure referral —
{#c0ffa13e711db57cf66f3e47b508b0b1933ceeab41126ad1bd8ed9f2} 
 Official interpretation of 41(f) Prohibition on foreclosure referral.
{#41-f-Interp-1} 1. Prohibited activities. Section 1024.41(f) prohibits a servicer from making the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process under certain circumstances. Whether a document is considered the first notice or filing is determined on the basis of foreclosure procedure under the applicable State law.
{#41-f-Interp-1-i} i. Where foreclosure procedure requires a court action or proceeding, a document is considered the first notice or filing if it is the earliest document required to be filed with a court or other judicial body to commence the action or proceeding (e.g., a complaint, petition, order to docket, or notice of hearing).
{#41-f-Interp-1-ii} ii. Where foreclosure procedure does not require an action or court proceeding, such as under a power of sale, a document is considered the first notice or filing if it is the earliest document required to be recorded or published to initiate the foreclosure process.
{#41-f-Interp-1-iii} iii. Where foreclosure procedure does not require any court filing or proceeding, and also does not require any document to be recorded or published, a document is considered the first notice or filing if it is the earliest document that establishes, sets, or schedules a date for the foreclosure sale.
{#41-f-Interp-1-iv} iv. A document provided to the borrower but not initially required to be filed, recorded, or published is not considered the first notice or filing on the sole basis that the document must later be included as an attachment accompanying another document that is required to be filed, recorded, or published to carry out a foreclosure.
 See interpretation of 41(f) Prohibition on foreclosure referral.
 in Supplement I
{#f-1} (1) Pre-foreclosure review period. A servicer shall not make the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process unless:
{#f-1-i} (i) A borrower's mortgage loan obligation is more than 120 days delinquent;
{#f-1-ii} (ii) The foreclosure is based on a borrower's violation of a due-on-sale clause; or
{#f-1-iii} (iii) The servicer is joining the foreclosure action of a superior or subordinate lienholder.
{#f-2} (2) Application received before foreclosure referral. If a borrower submits a complete loss mitigation application during the pre-foreclosure review period set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section or before a servicer has made the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process, a servicer shall not make the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process unless:
{#f-2-i} (i) The servicer has sent the borrower a notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section that the borrower is not eligible for any loss mitigation option and the appeal process in paragraph (h) of this section is not applicable, the borrower has not requested an appeal within the applicable time period for requesting an appeal, or the borrower's appeal has been denied;
{#f-2-ii} (ii) The borrower rejects all loss mitigation options offered by the servicer; or
{#f-2-iii} (iii) The borrower fails to perform under an agreement on a loss mitigation option.
{#f-3} (3) Temporary Special COVID-19 Loss Mitigation Procedural Safeguards.
{#18f10c43e80b9b2a87727b41968c600a7462e8700866c9322020e682} 
 Official interpretation of 41(f)(3) Temporary Special COVID-19 Loss Mitigation Procedural Safeguards
{#41-f-3-Interp-1} 1. Record retention. As required by § 1024.38(c)(1), a servicer shall maintain records that document actions taken with respect to a borrower’s mortgage loan account until one year after the date a mortgage loan is discharged or servicing of a mortgage loan is transferred by the servicer to a transferee servicer. If the servicer makes the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process before January 1, 2022, these records must include evidence demonstrating compliance with § 1024.41(f)(3), including, if applicable, evidence that the servicer satisfied one of the procedural safeguards described in § 1024.41(3)(ii). For example, if the procedural safeguards are met due to an unresponsive borrower determination as described in § 1024.41(f)(3)(ii)(C), the servicer must maintain records demonstrating that the servicer did not receive communications from the borrower during the relevant time period and that all four elements of § 1024.41(f)(3)(ii)(C) were met. For example, records demonstrating that the servicer did not receive any communications from the borrower during any relevant time period may include, for example: (1) call logs, servicing notes, and other systems of record cataloguing communications showing the absence of written or oral communication from the borrower during the relevant period; and (2) a schedule of all transactions credited or debited to the mortgage loan account, including any escrow account as defined in § 1024.17(b) and any suspense account, as required by § 1024.38(c)(2)(i). The method of retaining these records must comply with comment 31(c)(1)-1.
 See interpretation of 41(f)(3) Temporary Special COVID-19 Loss Mitigation Procedural Safeguards
 in Supplement I
{#f-3-i} (i) In general. To give a borrower a meaningful opportunity to pursue loss mitigation options, a servicer must ensure that one of the procedural safeguards described in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) has been met before making the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process because of a delinquency under paragraph (f)(1)(i) if:
{#f-3-i-A} (A) The borrower’s mortgage loan obligation became more than 120 days delinquent on or after March 1, 2020; and
{#f-3-i-B} (B) The statute of limitations applicable to the foreclosure action being taken in the laws of the State where the property securing the mortgage loan is located expires on or after January 1, 2022. 
{#f-3-ii} (ii) Procedural safeguards. A procedural safeguard is met if:
{#f-3-ii-A} (A) Complete loss mitigation application evaluated. The borrower submitted a complete loss mitigation application, remained delinquent at all times since submitting the application, and paragraph (f)(2) of this section permitted the servicer to make the first notice or filing required for foreclosure;
{#f-3-ii-B} (B) Abandoned property. The property securing the mortgage loan is abandoned according to the laws of the State or municipality where the property is located when the servicer makes the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process; or
{#f-3-ii-C} (C) Unresponsive borrower. The servicer did not receive any communications from the borrower for at least 90 days before the servicer makes the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process and all of the following conditions are met:
{#a6c8cad7453ca271c8a0566af5faa950e27f1e6ca66a00c78d18f36a} 
 Official interpretation of 41(f)(3)(ii)(C) Unresponsive borrower
{#41-f-3-ii-C-Interp-1} 1. Communication. For purposes of § 1024.41(f)(3)(ii)(C), a servicer has not received a communication from the borrower if the servicer has not received any written or electronic communication from the borrower about the mortgage loan obligation, has not received a telephone call from the borrower about the mortgage loan obligation, has not successfully established live contact with the borrower about the mortgage loan obligation, and has not received a payment on the mortgage loan obligation. A servicer has received a communication from the borrower if, for example, the borrower discusses loss mitigation options with the servicer, even if the borrower does not submit a loss mitigation application or agree to a loss mitigation option offered by the servicer.
{#41-f-3-ii-C-Interp-2} 2. Borrower's representative. A servicer has received a communication from the borrower if the communication is from an agent of the borrower. A servicer may undertake reasonable procedures to determine if a person that claims to be an agent of a borrower has authority from the borrower to act on the borrower's behalf, for example, by requiring that a person that claims to be an agent of the borrower provide documentation from the borrower stating that the purported agent is acting on the borrower's behalf. Upon receipt of such documentation, the servicer shall treat the communication as having been submitted by the borrower.
 See interpretation of 41(f)(3)(ii)(C) Unresponsive borrower
 in Supplement I
{#f-3-ii-C-1} (1) The servicer made good faith efforts to establish live contact with the borrower after each payment due date, as required by § 1024.39(a), during the 90-day period before the servicer makes the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process;
{#f-3-ii-C-2} (2) The servicer sent the written notice required by § 1024.39(b) at least 10 days and no more than 45 days before the servicer makes the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process; 
{#f-3-ii-C-3} (3) The servicer sent all notices required by this section, as applicable, during the 90-day period before the servicer makes the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process; and
{#f-3-ii-C-4} (4) The borrower’s forbearance program, if applicable, ended at least 30 days before the servicer makes the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process.
{#f-3-iii} (iii) Sunset date. This paragraph (f)(3) does not apply if a servicer makes the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process on or after January 1, 2022.
{#g} (g) Prohibition on foreclosure sale. If a borrower submits a complete loss mitigation application after a servicer has made the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process but more than 37 days before a foreclosure sale, a servicer shall not move for foreclosure judgment or order of sale, or conduct a foreclosure sale, unless:
{#a481bae52bf0ebcd09c9d0913d519683d35e1c237e349186b98a3516} 
 Official interpretation of 41(g) Prohibition on foreclosure sale.
{#41-g-Interp-1} 1. Dispositive motion. The prohibition on a servicer moving for judgment or order of sale includes making a dispositive motion for foreclosure judgment, such as a motion for default judgment, judgment on the pleadings, or summary judgment, which may directly result in a judgment of foreclosure or order of sale. A servicer that has made any such motion before receiving a complete loss mitigation application has not moved for a foreclosure judgment or order of sale if the servicer takes reasonable steps to avoid a ruling on such motion or issuance of such order prior to completing the procedures required by § 1024.41, notwithstanding whether any such action successfully avoids a ruling on a dispositive motion or issuance of an order of sale.
{#41-g-Interp-2} 2. Proceeding with the foreclosure process. Nothing in § 1024.41(g) prevents a servicer from proceeding with the foreclosure process, including any publication, arbitration, or mediation requirements established by applicable law, when the first notice or filing for a foreclosure proceeding occurred before a servicer receives a complete loss mitigation application so long as any such steps in the foreclosure process do not cause or directly result in the issuance of a foreclosure judgment or order of sale, or the conduct of a foreclosure sale, in violation of § 1024.41.
{#41-g-Interp-3} 3. Interaction with foreclosure counsel. The prohibitions in § 1024.41(g) against moving for judgment or order of sale or conducting a sale may require a servicer to act through foreclosure counsel retained by the servicer in a foreclosure proceeding. If a servicer has received a complete loss mitigation application, the servicer must instruct counsel promptly not to make a dispositive motion for foreclosure judgment or order of sale; where such a dispositive motion is pending, to avoid a ruling on the motion or issuance of an order of sale; and, where a sale is scheduled, to prevent conduct of a foreclosure sale, unless one of the conditions in § 1024.41(g)(1) through (3) is met. A servicer is not relieved of its obligations because foreclosure counsel's actions or inaction caused a violation.
{#41-g-Interp-4} 4. Loss mitigation applications submitted 37 days or less before foreclosure sale. Although a servicer is not required to comply with the requirements in § 1024.41 with respect to a loss mitigation application submitted 37 days or less before a foreclosure sale, a servicer is required separately, in accordance with policies and procedures maintained pursuant to § 1024.38(b)(2)(v) to properly evaluate a borrower who submits an application for a loss mitigation option for all loss mitigation options available to the borrower pursuant to any requirements established by the owner or assignee of the borrower's mortgage loan. Such evaluation may be subject to requirements applicable to a review of a loss mitigation application submitted by a borrower 37 days or less before a foreclosure sale.
{#41-g-Interp-5} 5. Conducting a sale prohibited. Section 1024.41(g) prohibits a servicer from conducting a foreclosure sale, even if a person other than the servicer administers or conducts the foreclosure sale proceedings. Where a foreclosure sale is scheduled, and none of the conditions under § 1024.41(g)(1) through (3) are applicable, conduct of the sale violates § 1024.41(g).
 See interpretation of 41(g) Prohibition on foreclosure sale.
 in Supplement I
{#g-1} (1) The servicer has sent the borrower a notice pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section that the borrower is not eligible for any loss mitigation option and the appeal process in paragraph (h) of this section is not applicable, the borrower has not requested an appeal within the applicable time period for requesting an appeal, or the borrower's appeal has been denied;
{#g-2} (2) The borrower rejects all loss mitigation options offered by the servicer; or
{#g-3} (3) The borrower fails to perform under an agreement on a loss mitigation option.
{#1f9ee775e406b0ba4aabf79b1c55581c63cdfd7f3b115c23071c5438} 
 Official interpretation of Paragraph 41(g)(3).
{#41-g-3-Interp-1} 1. Short sale listing period. An agreement for a short sale transaction, or other similar loss mitigation option, typically includes marketing or listing periods during which a servicer will allow a borrower to market a short sale transaction. A borrower is deemed to be performing under an agreement on a short sale, or other similar loss mitigation option, during the term of a marketing or listing period.
{#41-g-3-Interp-2} 2. Short sale agreement. If a borrower has not obtained an approved short sale transaction at the end of any marketing or listing period, a servicer may determine that a borrower has failed to perform under an agreement on a loss mitigation option. An approved short sale transaction is a short sale transaction that has been approved by all relevant parties, including the servicer, other affected lienholders, or insurers, if applicable, and the servicer has received proof of funds or financing, unless circumstances otherwise indicate that an approved short sale transaction is not likely to occur.
 See interpretation of Paragraph 41(g)(3).
 in Supplement I
{#h} (h) Appeal process —
{#3860a7f63ae57fa10f06096a139069bc32418329b755e11780870c03} 
 Official interpretation of 41(h) Appeal process.
 See interpretation of 41(h) Appeal process.
 in Supplement I
{#h-1} (1) Appeal process required for loan modification denials. If a servicer receives a complete loss mitigation application 90 days or more before a foreclosure sale or during the period set forth in paragraph (f) of this section, a servicer shall permit a borrower to appeal the servicer's determination to deny a borrower's loss mitigation application for any trial or permanent loan modification program available to the borrower.
{#h-2} (2) Deadlines. A servicer shall permit a borrower to make an appeal within 14 days after the servicer provides the offer of a loss mitigation option to the borrower pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
{#h-3} (3) Independent evaluation. An appeal shall be reviewed by different personnel than those responsible for evaluating the borrower's complete loss mitigation application.
{#b5020950ad2def55567c5e84b2259cb324046cf369a279cc1111dc9a} 
 Official interpretation of Paragraph 41(h)(3).
{#41-h-3-Interp-1} 1. Supervisory personnel. The appeal may be evaluated by supervisory personnel that are responsible for oversight of the personnel that conducted the initial evaluation, as long as the supervisory personnel were not directly involved in the initial evaluation of the borrower's complete loss mitigation application.
 See interpretation of Paragraph 41(h)(3).
 in Supplement I
{#h-4} (4) Appeal determination. Within 30 days of a borrower making an appeal, the servicer shall provide a notice to the borrower stating the servicer's determination of whether the servicer will offer the borrower a loss mitigation option based upon the appeal and, if applicable, how long the borrower has to accept or reject such an offer or a prior offer of a loss mitigation option. A servicer may require that a borrower accept or reject an offer of a loss mitigation option after an appeal no earlier than 14 days after the servicer provides the notice to a borrower. A servicer's determination under this paragraph is not subject to any further appeal.
{#i} (i) Duplicative requests. A servicer must comply with the requirements of this section for a borrower's loss mitigation application, unless the servicer has previously complied with the requirements of this section for a complete loss mitigation application submitted by the borrower and the borrower has been delinquent at all times since submitting the prior complete application.
{#b076a184d8442b5e9aab964a329fdfda3ccf616514541d66d94ba7d0} 
 Official interpretation of 41(i) Duplicative requests.
{#41-i-Interp-1} 1. Applicability of loss mitigation protections. Under § 1024.41(i), a servicer must comply with § 1024.41 with respect to a loss mitigation application unless the servicer has previously done so for a complete loss mitigation application submitted by the borrower and the borrower has been delinquent at all times since submitting the prior complete application. Thus, for example, if the borrower has previously submitted a complete loss mitigation application and the servicer complied fully with § 1024.41 for that application, but the borrower then ceased to be delinquent and later became delinquent again, the servicer again must comply with § 1024.41 for any subsequent loss mitigation application submitted by the borrower. When a servicer is required to comply with the requirements of § 1024.41 for such a subsequent loss mitigation application, the servicer must comply with all applicable requirements of § 1024.41. For example, in such a case, the servicer's provision of the notice of determination of which loss mitigation options, if any, it will offer to the borrower under § 1024.41(c)(1)(ii) regarding the borrower's prior complete loss mitigation application does not affect the servicer's obligations to provide a new notice of complete application under § 1024.41(c)(3)(i) regarding the borrower's subsequent complete loss mitigation application.
{#41-i-Interp-2} 2. Servicing transfers. Section 1024.41(i) provides that a servicer need not comply with § 1024.41 for a subsequent loss mitigation application from a borrower where certain conditions are met. A transferee servicer and a transferor servicer, however, are not the same servicer. Accordingly, a transferee servicer is required to comply with the applicable requirements of § 1024.41 upon receipt of a loss mitigation application from a borrower whose servicing the transferee servicer has obtained through a servicing transfer, even if the borrower previously received an evaluation of a complete loss mitigation application from the transferor servicer.
 See interpretation of 41(i) Duplicative requests.
 in Supplement I
{#j} (j) Small servicer requirements. A small servicer shall be subject to the prohibition on foreclosure referral in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. A small servicer shall not make the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process and shall not move for foreclosure judgment or order of sale, or conduct a foreclosure sale, if a borrower is performing pursuant to the terms of an agreement on a loss mitigation option.
{#k} (k) Servicing transfers —
{#96d4565e86277b2fe9be9ec0d764ccadc897ae871d56d8ed6234f2ca} 
 Official interpretation of 41(k) Servicing transfers.
{#41-k-Interp-1} 1. Pending loss mitigation application. For purposes of § 1024.41(k), a loss mitigation application is pending if it was subject to § 1024.41 and had not been fully resolved before the transfer date. For example, a loss mitigation application would not be considered pending if a transferor servicer had denied a borrower for all options and the borrower's time for making an appeal, if any, had expired prior to the transfer date, such that the transferor servicer had no continuing obligations under § 1024.41 with respect to the application. A pending application is considered a pending complete application if it was complete as of the transfer date under the transferor servicer's criteria for evaluating loss mitigation applications.
 See interpretation of 41(k) Servicing transfers.
 in Supplement I
{#k-1} (1) In general —
{#k-1-i} (i) Timing of compliance. Except as provided in paragraphs (k)(2) through (4) of this section, if a transferee servicer acquires the servicing of a mortgage loan for which a loss mitigation application is pending as of the transfer date, the transferee servicer must comply with the requirements of this section for that loss mitigation application within the timeframes that were applicable to the transferor servicer based on the date the transferor servicer received the loss mitigation application. All rights and protections under paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section to which a borrower was entitled before a transfer continue to apply notwithstanding the transfer.
{#1a0c267f4c3803b66ab4981a75d46bf073d4439bf7a88bee9e6facc0} 
 Official interpretation of 41(k)(1)(i) Timing of compliance.
{#41-k-1-i-Interp-1} 1. Obtaining loss mitigation documents and information. i. In connection with a transfer, a transferor servicer must timely transfer, and a transferee servicer must obtain from the transferor servicer, documents and information submitted by a borrower in connection with a loss mitigation application, consistent with policies and procedures adopted pursuant to § 1024.38(b)(4). A transferee servicer must comply with the applicable requirements of § 1024.41 with respect to a loss mitigation application received as a result of a transfer, even if the transferor servicer was not required to comply with § 1024.41 with respect to that application (for example, because § 1024.41(i) precluded applicability of § 1024.41 with respect to the transferor servicer). If an application was not subject to § 1024.41 prior to a transfer, then for purposes of § 1024.41(b) and (c), a transferee servicer is considered to have received the loss mitigation application on the transfer date. Any such application is subject to the timeframes for compliance set forth in § 1024.41(k).
{#41-k-1-i-Interp-ii} ii. A transferee servicer must, in accordance with § 1024.41(b)(1), exercise reasonable diligence to complete a loss mitigation application, including a facially complete application, received as a result of a transfer. In the transfer context, reasonable diligence includes ensuring that a borrower is informed of any changes to the application process, such as a change in the address to which the borrower should submit documents and information to complete the application, as well as ensuring that the borrower is informed about which documents and information are necessary to complete the application.
{#41-k-1-i-Interp-iii} iii. A borrower may provide documents and information necessary to complete an application to a transferor servicer after the transfer date. Consistent with policies and procedures maintained pursuant to § 1024.38(b)(4), the transferor servicer must timely transfer, and the transferee servicer must obtain, such documents and information.
{#41-k-1-i-Interp-2} 2. Determination of rights and protections. For purposes of § 1024.41(c) through (h), a transferee servicer must consider documents and information that constitute a complete loss mitigation application for the transferee servicer to have been received as of the date such documents and information were received by the transferor servicer, even if such documents and information were received by the transferor servicer after the transfer date. See comment 41(k)(1)(i)-1.iii. An application that was facially complete under § 1024.41(c)(2)(iv) with respect to the transferor servicer remains facially complete under § 1024.41(c)(2)(iv) with respect to the transferee servicer as of the date it was facially complete with respect to the transferor servicer. If an application was complete with respect to the transferor servicer, but is not complete with respect to the transferee servicer, the transferee servicer must treat the application as facially complete under § 1024.41(c)(2)(iv) as of the date the application was complete with respect to the transferor servicer.
{#41-k-1-i-Interp-3} 3. Duplicative notices not required. A transferee servicer is not required to provide notices under § 1024.41 with respect to a particular loss mitigation application that the transferor servicer provided prior to the transfer. For example, if the transferor servicer provided the notice required by § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B) prior to the transfer, the transferee servicer is not required to provide the notice again for that application.
 See interpretation of 41(k)(1)(i) Timing of compliance.
 in Supplement I
{#k-1-ii} (ii) Transfer date defined. For purposes of this paragraph (k), the transfer date is the date on which the transferee servicer will begin accepting payments relating to the mortgage loan, as disclosed on the notice of transfer of loan servicing pursuant to § 1024.33(b)(4)(iv). 
{#ebd01416087abc6dbeb01a785c399b183b48455295d75261069ab10e} 
 Official interpretation of 41(k)(1)(ii) Transfer date defined.
{#41-k-1-ii-Interp-1} 1. Transfer date. Section 1024.41(k)(1)(ii) provides that the transfer date is the date on which the transferee servicer will begin accepting payments relating to the mortgage loan, as disclosed on the notice of transfer of loan servicing pursuant to § 1024.33(b)(4)(iv). The transfer date is the same date as that on which the transfer of the servicing responsibilities from the transferor servicer to the transferee servicer occurs. The transfer date is not necessarily the same date as either the effective date of the transfer of servicing as disclosed on the notice of transfer of loan servicing pursuant to § 1024.33(b)(4)(i) or the sale date identified in a servicing transfer agreement.
 See interpretation of 41(k)(1)(ii) Transfer date defined.
 in Supplement I
{#k-2} (2) Acknowledgment notices —
{#0f74af3f0d451c8c2cd24f5ce5fb00d049887620941c7dc0b734d9c9} 
 Official interpretation of 41(k)(2) Acknowledgment notices.
 See interpretation of 41(k)(2) Acknowledgment notices.
 in Supplement I
{#k-2-i} (i) Transferee servicer timeframes. If a transferee servicer acquires the servicing of a mortgage loan for which the period to provide the notice required by paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section has not expired as of the transfer date and the transferor servicer has not provided such notice, the transferee servicer must provide the notice within 10 days (excluding legal public holidays, Saturdays, and Sundays) of the transfer date.
{#k-2-ii} (ii) Prohibitions. A transferee servicer that must provide the notice required by paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section under this paragraph (k)(2):
{#b891cafefa13eed5cf64ca6b242bbcf5b0ed28dc51f12afc156cc93f} 
 Official interpretation of 41(k)(2)(ii) Prohibitions.
{#41-k-2-ii-Interp-1} 1. Examples of prohibitions. Section 1024.41(k)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) adjusts the timeframes for certain borrower rights and foreclosure protections where § 1024.41(k)(2)(i) applies. These provisions are illustrated as follows: Assume a transferor servicer receives a borrower's initial loss mitigation application on October 1, and the loan is transferred five days (excluding legal public holidays, Saturdays, or Sundays) later, on October 8. Assume that Columbus Day, a legal public holiday, occurs on October 14, and the transferee servicer provides the notice required by § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B) 10 days (excluding legal public holidays, Saturdays, or Sundays) after the transfer date, on October 23. Assume the transferee servicer discloses a 30-day reasonable date, November 22, under § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii).
{#41-k-2-ii-Interp-1-i} i. If the transferor servicer receives the borrower's initial loss mitigation application when the borrower's mortgage loan is 101 days delinquent, the borrower's mortgage loan would be 123 days delinquent on October 23, the date the transferee servicer provides the notice required by § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B). Pursuant to § 1024.41(k)(2)(ii)(A), the transferee servicer cannot make the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process until after November 22, the reasonable date disclosed under § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii), and then only if the borrower has not submitted a complete application by that date.
{#41-k-2-ii-Interp-1-ii} ii. If the transferor servicer receives the borrower's initial loss mitigation application 55 days before the foreclosure sale, the date that the transferee servicer provides the notice required by § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B), October 23, is 33 days before the foreclosure sale. Pursuant to § 1024.41(k)(2)(ii)(B), the transferee servicer must comply with § 1024.41(c), (d), and (g) if the borrower submits a complete loss mitigation application on or before November 22, the reasonable date disclosed under § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii).
{#41-k-2-ii-Interp-2} 2. Applicability of loss mitigation provisions. Section 1024.41(k)(2)(ii)(A) prohibits a servicer from making the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process until a date that is after the reasonable date disclosed to the borrower pursuant to § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii), notwithstanding § 1024.41(f)(1). Section 1024.41(k)(2)(ii)(B) requires a servicer to comply with § 1024.41(c), (d), and (g) if a borrower submits a complete loss mitigation application on or before the reasonable date disclosed in the notice required by § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B), even if the servicer would otherwise not be required to comply with § 1024.41(c), (d), and (g) because the application is submitted 37 days or fewer before a foreclosure sale. Section 1024.41(k)(2)(ii) provides additional protections for borrowers but does not remove any protections. Servicers remain subject to the requirements of § 1024.41 as applicable and so, for example, must comply with § 1024.41(h) if the servicer receives a complete loss mitigation application 90 days or more before a foreclosure sale. Similarly, a servicer is prohibited from making the first notice or filing before the borrower's mortgage loan obligation is more than 120 days delinquent, even if that is after the reasonable date disclosed to the borrower pursuant to § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii).
{#41-k-2-ii-Interp-3} 3. Reasonable date when no milestones remain. Generally, a servicer does not provide the notice required under § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B) after the date that is 38 days before a foreclosure sale, so at least one milestone specified in comment 41(b)(ii)-1 always remains applicable. When § 1024.41(k)(2)(i) applies, however, the transferee servicer may sometimes provide the notice after the date that is 38 days before a foreclosure sale. When this occurs, the transferee servicer must determine the reasonable date when none of the four specified milestones remain. The other requirements of § 1024.41(b)(2)(ii) continue to apply. In this circumstance, a reasonable date may occur less than 30 days, but not less than seven days, after the date the transferee servicer provides the written notice pursuant to § 1024.41(b)(2)(i)(B).
 See interpretation of 41(k)(2)(ii) Prohibitions.
 in Supplement I
{#k-2-ii-A} (A) Shall not make the first notice or filing required by applicable law for any judicial or non-judicial foreclosure process until a date that is after the reasonable date disclosed to the borrower pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, notwithstanding paragraph (f)(1) of this section. For purposes of paragraph (f)(2) of this section, a borrower who submits a complete loss mitigation application on or before the reasonable date disclosed to the borrower pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section shall be treated as having done so during the pre-foreclosure review period set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
{#k-2-ii-B} (B) Shall comply with paragraphs (c), (d), and (g) of this section if the borrower submits a complete loss mitigation application to the transferee or transferor servicer 37 or fewer days before the foreclosure sale but on or before the reasonable date disclosed to the borrower pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
{#k-3} (3) Complete loss mitigation applications pending at transfer. If a transferee servicer acquires the servicing of a mortgage loan for which a complete loss mitigation application is pending as of the transfer date, the transferee servicer must comply with the applicable requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (4) of this section within 30 days of the transfer date.
{#eb0dfa0a14c6f78903272763f5bc91a6120e869b6c08addb90700472} 
 Official interpretation of 41(k)(3) Complete loss mitigation applications pending at transfer.
{#41-k-3-Interp-1} 1. Additional information or corrections to a previously submitted document. If a transferee servicer acquires the servicing of a mortgage loan for which a complete loss mitigation application is pending as of the transfer date and the transferee servicer determines that additional information or a correction to a previously submitted document is required based upon its criteria for evaluating loss mitigation applications, the application is considered facially complete under § 1024.41(c)(2)(iv) as of the date it was first facially complete or complete, as applicable, with respect to the transferor servicer. Once the transferee servicer receives the information or corrections necessary to complete the application, § 1024.41(c)(3) requires the transferee servicer to provide a notice of complete application.
{#41-k-3-Interp-2} 2. Applications first complete upon transfer. If the borrower's loss mitigation application was incomplete based on the transferor servicer's criteria prior to transfer but is complete based upon the transferee servicer's criteria, the application is considered a pending loss mitigation application complete as of the transfer date for purposes of § 1024.41(k)(3). Consequently, the transferee servicer must comply with the applicable requirements of § 1024.41(c)(1) and (4) within 30 days of the transfer date. For purposes of § 1024.41(c) through (h), the application is complete as of the date the transferor servicer received the documents and information constituting the complete application. See comment 41(k)(1)(i)-2. In such circumstances, § 1024.41(c)(3) requires the transferee servicer to provide a notice of complete application that discloses the date the transferor servicer received the documents and information constituting the complete application.
 See interpretation of 41(k)(3) Complete loss mitigation applications pending at transfer.
 in Supplement I
{#k-4} (4) Applications subject to appeal process. If a transferee servicer acquires the servicing of a mortgage loan for which an appeal of a transferor servicer's determination pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section has not been resolved by the transferor servicer as of the transfer date or is timely filed after the transfer date, the transferee servicer must make a determination on the appeal if it is able to do so or, if it is unable to do so, must treat the appeal as a pending complete loss mitigation application.
{#77fda899485aea526b8bfac3ea176485cc866ad4341dbb515c0cb04e} 
 Official interpretation of 41(k)(4) Applications subject to appeal process.
{#41-k-4-Interp-1} 1. Obtaining appeal. A borrower may submit an appeal of a transferor servicer's determination pursuant to § 1024.41(h) to the transferor servicer after the transfer date. Consistent with policies and procedures maintained pursuant to § 1024.38(b)(4), the transferor servicer must timely transfer, and the transferee servicer must obtain, documents and information regarding such appeals.
{#41-k-4-Interp-2} 2. Servicer unable to determine appeal. A transferee servicer may be unable to make a determination on an appeal when, for example, the transferor servicer denied a borrower for a loan modification option that the transferee servicer does not offer or when the transferee servicer receives the mortgage loan through an involuntary transfer and the transferor servicer failed to maintain proper records such that the transferee servicer lacks sufficient information to review the appeal. In that circumstance, the transferee servicer is required to treat the appeal as a pending complete application, and it must permit the borrower to accept or reject any loss mitigation options offered by the transferor servicer, even if it does not offer the loss mitigation options offered by the transferor servicer, in addition to the loss mitigation options, if any, that the transferee servicer determines to offer the borrower based on its own evaluation of the borrower's complete loss mitigation application. For example, assume a transferor servicer denied a borrower for all loan modification options but offered the borrower a short sale option, and assume that the borrower's appeal of the loan modification denial was pending as of the transfer date. If the transferee servicer is unable to determine the borrower's appeal, the transferee servicer must evaluate the borrower for all available loss mitigation options in accordance with § 1024.41(c) and (k)(3). At the conclusion of such evaluation, the transferee servicer must permit the borrower to accept the short sale option offered by the transferor servicer, even if the transferee servicer does not offer the short sale option, in addition to any loss mitigation options the transferee servicer determines to offer the borrower based upon its own evaluation.
 See interpretation of 41(k)(4) Applications subject to appeal process.
 in Supplement I
{#k-4-i} (i) Determining appeal. If a transferee servicer is required under this paragraph (k)(4) to make a determination on an appeal, the transferee servicer must complete the determination and provide the notice required by paragraph (h)(4) of this section within 30 days of the transfer date or 30 days of the date the borrower made the appeal, whichever is later.
{#k-4-ii} (ii) Servicer unable to determine appeal. A transferee servicer that is required to treat a borrower's appeal as a pending complete loss mitigation application under this paragraph (k)(4) must comply with the requirements of this section for such application, including evaluating the borrower for all loss mitigation options available to the borrower from the transferee servicer. For purposes of paragraph (c) or (k)(3) of this section, as applicable, such a pending complete loss mitigation application shall be considered complete as of the date the appeal was received by the transferor servicer or the transferee servicer, whichever occurs first. For purposes of paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section, the transferee servicer must treat such a pending complete loss mitigation application as facially complete under paragraph (c)(2)(iv) as of the date it was first facially complete or complete, as applicable, with respect to the transferor servicer.
{#k-5} (5) Pending loss mitigation offers. A transfer does not affect a borrower's ability to accept or reject a loss mitigation option offered under paragraph (c) or (h) of this section. If a transferee servicer acquires the servicing of a mortgage loan for which the borrower's time period under paragraph (e) or (h) of this section for accepting or rejecting a loss mitigation option offered by the transferor servicer has not expired as of the transfer date, the transferee servicer must allow the borrower to accept or reject the offer during the unexpired balance of the applicable time period.
{#dc8bbc83611665fcc4bf7560c273b6697ac106aaae35cb7423e1e17f} 
 Official interpretation of 41(k)(5) Pending loss mitigation offers.
{#41-k-5-Interp-1} 1. Obtaining evidence of borrower acceptance. A borrower may provide an acceptance or rejection of a pending loss mitigation offer to a transferor servicer after the transfer date. Consistent with policies and procedures maintained pursuant to § 1024.38(b)(4), the transferor servicer must timely transfer, and the transferee servicer must obtain, documents and information regarding such acceptances and rejections, and the transferee servicer must provide the borrower with any timely accepted loss mitigation option, even if the borrower submitted the acceptance to the transferor servicer.
 See interpretation of 41(k)(5) Pending loss mitigation offers.
 in Supplement I
 