January 2021




TILA Higher-Priced
Mortgage Loans (HPML)
Escrow Rule
Small entity compliance guide
Version Log
The Bureau updates this guide on a periodic basis to reflect finalized amendments and
clarifications to the rule which impact guide content. Below is a version log noting the history of
this document and notable rule changes:

    Date          Version          Rule Changes

    January 29,   1.3              Exemption for certain insured institutions. The
    2021                           January 2021 Final Rule adds a new exemption
                                   from the requirement to establish escrow accounts
                                   for certain higher-priced mortgage loans. The final
                                   rule also removes obsolete text from the Official
                                   Interpretations to Regulation Z (commentary).
                                   (See “Are there exemptions for creditors under
                                   this rule?” on page 13, “What are the requirements
                                   for the small creditors exemption?” on page
                                   13,“What are the requirements for the insured
                                   institution exemption?” on page 15, “What are the
                                   loan volume and asset size requirements to
                                   qualify for the exemption for small creditors?” on
                                   page 16, “What are the loan volume and asset size
                                   requirements to qualify for the insured institution
                                   exemption?” on page 17, “How do I determine if
                                   my institution operates in a rural or underserved
                                   area?” on page 18, “What are the other
                                   requirements and conditions to qualify for either
                                   the exemption for small creditors exemption or the
                                   insured institution exemption?” on page 19, “What
                                   is an insured credit union?” on page 23, and
                                   “What is an insured depository institution?” on
                                   page 23.




1
                      Miscellaneous administrative changes in various
                      sections.




    March 28,   1.2   Exemption for Small Creditors that Operate in a
    2016              Rural or Underserved Area. The September 2015
                      Final Rule amends the eligibility criteria for small
                      creditors operating in rural or underserved areas
                      for exemption from the requirement to establish an
                      escrow account for higher-priced mortgage loans
                      (HPMLs). The March 2016 Interim Final Rule
                      further amends the definition of rural areas and
                      replaces the requirement that a small creditor
                      operate predominantly in rural and underserved
                      areas to be eligible for the escrow exemption with a
                      requirement that a small creditor operate in a rural
                      or underserved area. The revised rural-or-
                      underserved test extends eligibility to small
                      creditors that originated at least one covered loan
                      secured by a first lien on a property located in a
                      rural or underserved area in the preceding
                      calendar year. It also amends the conditions for
                      exempting small creditors from the requirement to
                      maintain escrows so that an otherwise eligible
                      small creditor will be able to rely on the exemption
                      if it and its affiliates continue to maintain escrows
                      established for first-lien HPMLs if the application
                      for the HPML was received between April 1, 2010
                      and May 1, 2016. (See “What are the exemptions
                      to the TILA HPML Escrow Rule?” on page 13 and
                      “What are the loan volume and size requirements
                      to qualify for the exemption for creditors
                      operating in a rural or underserved area?” on
                      page 14. See also “How do I determine if my


2
                           institution operates in a rural or underserved
                           area?” on page 18 and “What are the other
                           requirements and conditions to qualify for the
                           exemption for small creditors operating in a rural
                           or underserved area?” on page 16.)


    January 6,       1.1   Exemption for Small Creditors that Operate
    2014                   Predominantly in Rural or Underserved Areas.
                           The October 2013 Final Rule amends the
                           exemption from the requirement to maintain
                           escrows on certain higher-priced mortgage loans
                           for certain small creditors that operate
                           predominantly in rural or underserved areas. To
                           prevent small creditors from losing eligibility for
                           the exemption in 2014 due to changes in which
                           counties are defined as rural, the revisions extend
                           availability to small creditors that operated
                           predominantly in rural or underserved areas in any
                           of the previous three calendar years and also meet
                           the other exemption criteria. (See “What are the
                           exemptions to the TILA HPML Escrow Rule?” on
                           page 13)

    April 18, 2013   1.0   Original Document




3
Table of contents
Version Log .......................................................................................................................1

1.    Introduction ................................................................................................................6

      1.1     What is the purpose of this guide? ............................................................ 7
      1.2     Who should read this guide? ..................................................................... 8

      1.3     Who can I contact about this guide or the TILA HPML Escrow Rule? ... 8

2.    What is the TILA HPML Escrow Rule? ...................................................................9
      2.1     What is the purpose of the TILA HPML Escrow Rule? ............................ 9
      2.2 When do I have to start following this rule? ........................................... 10

      2.3 What do I have to do to comply with this rule? ...................................... 10

      2.4 What loans are not covered by the TILA HPML Escrow Rule?
          (§ 1026.35(b)(2))....................................................................................... 11

3.    What important changes did the TILA HPML Escrow Rule make?..................12

4.    What are the exemptions to the TILA HPML Escrow Rule?..............................13

      4.1     Are there exemptions for creditors under this rule? ...............................13
      4.2 What are the requirements for the small creditors exemption? .............13

      4.3 What are the requirements for the insured institution exemption? .......15
      4.4 What are the loan volume and asset size requirements to qualify for the
          small creditor exemption? ....................................................................... 16

      4.5 What are the loan volume and asset size requirements to qualify for the
          insured institution exemption? ................................................................17

      4.6 How do I determine if my institution operates in a rural or underserved
          area? (§§ 1026.35(b)(2)(iii)(A), 35(b)(2)(iv)(A), 35(b)(2)(iv)(B), and
          35(b)(2)(iv)(C)? ....................................................................................... 18



4
     4.7 What are the other requirements and conditions to qualify for either the
         small creditors exemption or the insured institution exemption? ........ 19
     4.8 Why did the Bureau exempt certain loans by certain creditors operating
         in a rural or underserved area from the TILA HPML Escrow Rule?
         (§ 1026.35(b)(2)(iv))................................................................................ 20

     4.9 What does the rule say about escrowing for property insurance in
         common interest communities? (§ 1026.33(b)(1))..................................21

5.   What definitions do I need to know? ....................................................................22

     5.1    What is a dwelling? (§ 1026.2(a)(19)) ..................................................... 22
     5.2 What is a higher-priced mortgage loan (HPML)? (§ 1026.35(a)(1)) ..... 22

     5.3 What is an insured credit union? (§ 1026.35(a)(3)) ............................... 23
     5.4 What is an insured depository institution? (§ 1026.35(a)(4)) ............... 23

6.   What else do I need to know?................................................................................24

     6.1    Can I structure a closed-end loan as open-end credit to evade this rule?
            (§ 1026.35(d)) .......................................................................................... 24
     6.2 Can consumers cancel their escrow accounts before the deadlines set in
         the rule? (§ 1026.35(b)(3)) ...................................................................... 24

7.   Practical implementation and compliance considerations...............................26

8.   Other resources .......................................................................................................29

     8.1    Where can I find a copy of the TILA HPML Escrow Rule and get more
            information about it?............................................................................... 29




5
1. Introduction
In response to the mortgage crisis, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) that, among other things, expanded protections
for consumers receiving higher-priced mortgage loans.

Before passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, creditors were required under rules issued by the Federal
Reserve Board to set up and administer escrow accounts for a minimum of one year for property
taxes and required mortgage-related insurance premiums for higher-priced mortgage loans
secured by a first lien on a principal dwelling.

This one-year escrow requirement became effective on April 1, 2010, for transactions secured by
site-built homes, and on October 1, 2010, for transactions secured by manufactured housing.

This small entity compliance guide discusses the Escrow Requirements under the Truth in
Lending Act (Regulation Z) Rule (January 2013 Final Rule) and subsequent amendments to the
rule, including the September 2015 Final Rule and January 2021 Final Rule. This rule
implements statutory changes made by the Dodd-Frank Act that lengthen the time creditors
must collect and manage escrows for higher-priced mortgage loans, and additional statutory
changes including the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act
(EGRRCPA) that exempt certain insured depository institutions and insured credit unions from
the requirement to establish escrow accounts for certain higher-priced mortgage loans. The rule
is generally referred to in this guide as the TILA Higher-Priced Mortgage Loans (HPML) Escrow
Rule.

The TILA HPML Escrow Rule helps ensure consumers set aside funds to pay property taxes,
homeowner’s insurance premiums, and other mortgage-related insurance required by the
creditor.

The TILA HPML Escrow Rule has three main elements:

    1. After you originate a higher-priced mortgage loan secured by a first lien on a principal
    dwelling, you must establish and maintain an escrow account for at least five years
    regardless of loan-to-value ratio. You must maintain the escrow account until one of the
    following occurs: 1) the underlying debt obligation is terminated or 2) after the five-year
    period, the consumer requests that the escrow account be canceled. However, if you are



6
    canceling the escrow account at the consumer’s request, the loan’s unpaid principal balance
    must be less than 80 percent of the original value of the property securing the underlying
    debt obligation, and the consumer must not be currently delinquent or in default on the
    underlying obligation.

    2. You do not have to escrow for insurance premiums for homeowners whose properties are
    located in condominiums, planned unit developments, and other common interest
    communities where the homeowners must participate in governing associations that are
    required to purchase master insurance policies.

    3. If you operate in a rural or underserved area and meet certain asset size and other
    requirements, you may be eligible for an exemption from this rule for certain loans you hold
    in portfolio.




1.1        What is the purpose of this guide?
The purpose of this guide is to provide an easy-to-use summary of the TILA HPML Escrow Rule.
This guide also highlights issues that small creditors and their business partners might find
helpful to consider when implementing the rule.

This guide also meets the requirements of Section 212 of the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, which requires the Bureau to issue a small entity compliance
guide to help small businesses comply with a new regulation.

This is a Compliance Aid issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Bureau
published a Policy Statement on Compliance Aids, available at
https://www.consumerfinance.gov/policy-compliance/rulemaking/final-rules/policystatement-
compliance-aids/, that explains the Bureau’s approach to Compliance Aids. The TILA HPML
Escrow Rule and its Official Interpretations (also known as Commentary) are the definitive
sources of information regarding the rule’s requirements. The complete rule, including the
Official Interpretations, is available at http://www.consumerfinance.gov/regulations/escrow-
requirements-under-the-truth-in-lending-act-regulation-z/.

Additionally, the Bureau has issued rules to amend and clarify provisions in the January 2013
Final Rule: the May 2013 Final Rule, the October 2013 Final Rule, the September 2015 Final
Rule, the March 2016 Interim Final Rule, and the January 2021 Final Rule.



7
The focus of this guide is the TILA HPML Escrow Rule. This guide does not discuss other
federal or state laws that may apply to the maintenance and administration of escrow accounts
or other rules to implement other requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act.

At the end of this guide, there is more information about how to read the rule and a list of
additional resources.




1.2        Who should read this guide?
If your organization originates higher-priced mortgage loans secured by principal dwellings, you
may find this guide helpful. This guide will help you determine whether the mortgage loans you
originate are regulated by this rule, and if so, what your compliance obligations are.

It discusses exceptions that might apply to you, including special rules for loans made by certain
small creditors and insured institutions operating in a rural or underserved area, as well as
special rules for loans secured by properties in common interest communities such as
condominiums and planned unit developments.

This guide may also be helpful to servicing market participants, software providers, and other
companies that serve as business partners to creditors.




1.3        Who can I contact about this guide or
           the TILA HPML Escrow Rule?
If, after reviewing this guide and the regulation(s) and commentary it addresses, you have a
question regarding regulatory interpretation, please submit the question on the Bureau’s
website at https://reginquiries.consumerfinance.gov/. Bureau staff provide only informal
responses to regulatory inquiries, and the responses do not constitute official interpretations or
legal advice.

Generally, Bureau staff are not able to respond to specific inquiries the same business day or
within a particular requested time frame. Actual response times will vary based on the number
of questions Bureau staff are handling and the amount of research needed to respond to a
specific question.


8
2. What is the TILA HPML
   Escrow Rule?
2.1        What is the purpose of the TILA HPML
           Escrow Rule?
As directed by Congress, the TILA HPML Escrow Rule lengthens to a minimum of five
years the required period most creditors must maintain an escrow account for higher-priced
mortgage loans.

Before passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, creditors were required under rules issued by the Federal
Reserve Board to set up and administer escrow accounts for property taxes and required
mortgage-related insurance premiums for higher-priced mortgage loans secured by a first lien
on a principal dwelling for a minimum of one year.

This one-year escrow requirement became effective on April 1, 2010, for transactions secured by
site-built homes, and on October 1, 2010, for transactions secured by manufactured housing.

Title XIV of the Dodd-Frank Act amended the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) to expand this
minimum escrow requirement from one year to five years. (See “What do I have to do to
comply with this rule?” on page 10 for additional requirements.)

The TILA HPML Escrow Rule also clarifies that you do not need to escrow for property
insurance premiums for mortgages on properties in planned unit developments and other
common interest communities where homeowners must participate in a governing association
that is required to purchase a master policy insuring all dwellings.

Finally, the rule offers regulatory relief for certain small creditors and insured institutions
operating in a rural or underserved area.




9
2.2        When do I have to start following this
           rule?
You must follow the TILA HPML Escrow Rule’s provisions for applications received on or after
June 1, 2013. This is a delay from January 21, 2013, when the new escrow requirements and
other new mortgage requirements under Title XIV of the Dodd-Frank Act would have been
effective in the absence of regulations.

The amendments to the TILA HPML Escrows Rule adopted in the October 1, 2013 Final Rule
apply to applications received on or after January 1, 2014.

The amendments to the TILA HPML Escrow Rule adopted in the September 2015 Final Rule are
effective January 1, 2016.

The amendments to the TILA HPML Escrow Rule adopted in the March 2016 Interim Final Rule
are effective March 31, 2016.

Finally, the amendments to the TILA HPML Escrow Rule adopted in the January 2021 Final
Rule are effective upon publication in the Federal Register (expected in February 2021). The
non-escrowing requirement in the January 2021 Final Rule becomes applicable 120 days after
that date. See “What are the other requirements and conditions to qualify for either the small
creditors exemption or the insured institution exemption?” on page 19.




2.3        What do I have to do to comply with this
           rule?
You must establish and maintain escrow accounts for first-lien higher-priced mortgage loans for
at least five years, subject to the requirements of the rule and any applicable exceptions. (See
“What are the exemptions to the TILA HPML Escrow Rule?” on page 13.)

This means that instead of being required to maintain mandatory escrow accounts for those
loans until at least the one-year anniversary of origination (for instance, on September 1, 2014,
for a loan originated on September 1, 2013), you are required by this regulation to maintain the
accounts until at least the five-year anniversary date (for instance, until at least September 1,
2018, for a loan originated on September 1, 2013).


10
You must maintain the escrow account until one of the following occurs: 1) the underlying debt
obligation is terminated or 2) after the five-year period, the consumer requests that the escrow
account be canceled. However, if you are canceling the escrow account at the consumer’s
request, the loan’s unpaid principal balance must be less than 80 percent of the original value of
the property securing the underlying debt obligation, and the consumer must not be currently
delinquent or in default on the underlying obligation – so if these conditions are not met, you
will need to maintain the escrow account beyond five years.

See Regulation X (12 CFR 1024.17(b)) for the definition of “escrow account.”

What loans does the TILA HPML Escrow Rule cover? (§ 1026.35(b)(1))

The TILA HPML Escrow Rule applies generally to first-lien, higher-priced mortgage loans (see
“What is a higher-priced mortgage loan (HPML)?” on page 22) secured by a consumer’s
principal dwelling, subject to certain exceptions described below.




2.4         What loans are not covered by the TILA
            HPML Escrow Rule? (§ 1026.35(b)(2))
Under the TILA HPML Escrow Rule, escrow accounts do not need to be established for:

        Transactions secured by shares in a cooperative

        Transactions to finance the initial construction of a dwelling

        Temporary or “bridge” transactions with terms of 12 months or less

        Reverse mortgages

        Transactions secured by subordinate liens

        Open-end credit (such as a home equity line of credit)

        Insurance premiums the consumer purchases that you do not require

Loans held in portfolio by an organization that operates in a rural or underserved area and
meets certain size and operational criteria may be exempt from the TILA HPML Escrow Rule.
(See “What are the exemptions to the TILA HPML Escrow Rule?” on page 13.)


11
3. What important changes did
   the TILA HPML Escrow Rule
   make?
The rule made three primary changes:

     1. It lengthened to at least five years the required minimum period most creditors must
     maintain an escrow account for first-lien higher-priced mortgage loans secured by a
     consumer’s principal dwelling. You must maintain the escrow account until one of the
     following occurs: 1) the underlying debt obligation is terminated or 2) after the five-year
     period, the consumer requests that the escrow account be canceled. However, if you are
     canceling the escrow account at the consumer’s request, the loan’s unpaid principal balance
     must be less than 80 percent of the original value of the property securing the underlying
     debt obligation, and the consumer must not be currently delinquent or in default on the
     underlying obligation.

     2. It clarified that you do not have to escrow insurance payments for homeowners in
     common interest communities where the governing body is required to purchase master
     insurance policies.

     3. It exempted from the escrow requirement loans made by certain small creditors and
     insured institutions that operate in a rural or underserved area, as long as they are not
     subject to forward commitments for sale to nonexempt institutions.




12
4. What are the exemptions to
   the TILA HPML Escrow
   Rule?
4.1         Are there exemptions for creditors under
            this rule?
The TILA HPML Escrow Rule contains two exemptions for creditors that operate in a rural or
underserved area: (1) the small creditors exemption, and (2) the insured institution exemption.

You may qualify for these exemptions based on your lending activity in a rural area or
underserved area. To qualify for either of these exemptions you must also meet other
requirements, such as loan volume and asset size. See “What are the requirements for the small
creditors exemption?” on page 13 and “What are the requirements for the insured institution
exemption?” on page15.




4.2         What are the requirements for the small
            creditors exemption?
Under the TILA HPML Escrow Rule, as amended, the HPML escrow requirement does not apply
to any loan made by a small creditor for a loan secured by a first lien on a property if:

     1. At least one covered transaction that the institution extended in the preceding calendar
     year (or in the year preceding that calendar year for applications received prior to April 1 of
     the current calendar year) was secured by a first lien on a property located in a rural or
     underserved area;

     2. The small creditor and its affiliates together extend no more than 2,000 covered
     transactions secured by first liens that were sold, assigned, or otherwise transferred by the
     creditor or its affiliates to another person, or that were subject at the time of consummation


13
     to a commitment to be acquired by another person, during the preceding calendar year or
     during either of the two preceding calendar years if the application for the loan was received
     before April 1 of the current calendar year;

     3. The small creditor has assets of $2.23 billion or less (adjusted annually for inflation);

     4. An escrow account is not required under § 1026.35(b)(2)(v), which requires that an
     escrow account be established for an HPML that was originated under a forward
     commitment for sale (i.e., your organization will not hold the loan in portfolio) unless the
     loan is otherwise exempt (for example, it is a reverse mortgage) or the acquirer is also
     eligible for either the small creditor or the insured institution exemption; and

     5. The small creditor and its affiliates do not maintain an escrow for HPMLs, pursuant to
     § 1026.35(b)(2)(iii)(D)(1), unless:

        a. The escrow was established after consummation as an accommodation to distressed
        consumers to assist such consumers in avoiding default or foreclosure, or

        b. The escrow was established at a time when the creditor may have been required by the
        regulation to do so, which would have occurred for an HPML escrow account on or after
        April 1, 2010, to 120 days from the effective date of the January 2021 Final Rule
        (expected in February 2021).

“Affiliate” is defined in § 1026.32(b)(5) as “any company that controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with another company, as set forth in the Bank Holding Company Act of
1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq.).”

For more information on these requirements see “What are the loan volume and asset size
requirements to qualify for the small creditor exemption?” on page 16, “How do I determine if
my institution operates in a rural or underserved area?” on page 18, and “What are the other
requirements and conditions to qualify for either the exemption for small creditors exemption
or the insured institution exemption? “on page 19.




14
4.3         What are the requirements for the
            insured institution exemption?
Under the TILA HPML Escrow Rule, as amended, the HPML escrow requirement does not apply
to any loan made by an insured depository institution or insured credit union and secured by a
first lien on the principal dwelling of a consumer if, at the time of consummation:

     1. The insured institution has assets of $10 billion or less (adjusted annually for inflation) as
     of the preceding December 31st, or, if the application for the transaction was received before
     April 1 of the current calendar year, as of either of the two preceding December 31sts;);

     2. The insured institution and its affiliates originated 1,000 or fewer loans secured by a first
     lien on a principal dwelling during the preceding calendar year, or, if the application for the
     transaction was received before April 1 of the current calendar year, during either of the two
     preceding calendar years;

     3. The insured institution meets the requirement in § 1026.35(b)(2)(iii)(A), which requires
     that at least one covered transaction that the institution extended in the preceding calendar
     year (or in the year preceding that calendar year for applications received prior to April 1 of
     the current calendar year) was secured by a first lien on a property located in a rural or
     underserved area;

     4. An escrow account is not required under § 1026.35(b)(2)(v), which requires that an
     escrow account be established for an HPML that was originated under a forward
     commitment for sale (i.e., your organization will not hold the loan in portfolio) unless the
     loan is otherwise exempt (for example, it is a reverse mortgage) or the acquirer is also
     eligible for either the small creditor or the insured institution exemption; and

     5. The insured institution and its affiliates do not maintain an escrow for HPMLs, pursuant
     to § 1026.35(b)(2)(iii)(D)(1), unless:

        a. The escrow was established after consummation as an accommodation to distressed
        consumers to assist such consumers in avoiding default or foreclosure, or

        b. The escrow was established at a time when the insured institution may have been
        required by the regulation to do so, which would have occurred for an HPML escrow
        account on or after April 1, 2010, to 120 days from the effective date of the January 2021
        Final Rule (expected in February 2021).




15
The TILA HPML Escrow Rule, as amended, defines “insured depository institution” to have the
same meaning given to the term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1813) and “insured credit union” to have the same meaning given to the term in section 101 of
the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752). “Affiliate” is defined in § 1026.32(b)(5) as “any
company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company, as
set forth in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq.).”

For more information on some of these requirements, see “What are the loan volume and asset
size requirements to qualify for the insured institution exemption?” on page 17, “How do I
determine if my institution operates in a rural or underserved area?” on page 18, “What are
the other requirements and conditions to qualify for either the small creditors exemption or the
insured institution exemption?” on page 19.




4.4         What are the loan volume and asset
            size requirements to qualify for the
            small creditors exemption?
To qualify, you must meet a two-part test under the TILA HPML Escrow Rule:

     1. Your organization, together with its affiliates, extended no more than 2,000 first-lien
     covered transactions during the preceding calendar year. Your organization is not required
     to count loans that it extended and kept in portfolio or loans that an affiliate extended and
     kept in its portfolio. Additionally, there is a grace period. If your organization, together with
     its affiliates, exceeded the loan-volume limit in the immediately preceding calendar year, it
     can still qualify as a small creditor for applications received before April 1 of the current
     year, if your organization and its affiliates did not exceed the limit in the calendar year
     before the immediately preceding calendar year. See comment 35(b)(2)(iii)-1.ii for
     additional guidance on this part of the test.

     2. As of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, your organization and its affiliates that
     regularly extended first lien covered transactions in the preceding calendar year together
     had total assets of less than $2.23 billion. The asset requirement adjusts automatically each
     year, based on the year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for Urban
     Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, for each 12-month period
     ending in November. Additionally, there is a grace period. If your organization, together


16
     with its affiliates that regularly extended covered transactions in the preceding calendar
     year, exceeded the asset-size limit in the preceding calendar year, your organization can still
     qualify as a small creditor for applications received before April 1 of the current year, if your
     organization and its affiliates that regularly extended covered transactions together did not
     exceed the asset-size limit in the calendar year before the immediately preceding calendar
     year. See comment 35(b)(2)(iii)-1.iii for additional guidance on this part of the test.

You must still meet other requirements in addition to asset size and loan volume to be exempt
from the TILA HPML Escrow Rule. (See “How do I determine if my institution operates in a
rural or underserved area?” below and “What are the other requirements and conditions to
qualify for either the small creditors exemption or insured institution?” on page 18).




4.5         What are the loan volume and asset
            size requirements to qualify for the
            insured institution exemption?
To qualify, you must meet a two-part test under the TILA HPML Escrow Rule:

     1. Your insured institution, together with its affiliates, extended no more than 1,000 first-
     lien covered transactions during the preceding calendar year. All loans made by the insured
     institution and its affiliates secured by a first lien on a principal dwelling count toward the
     1,000 loan threshold, whether or not such loans are held in portfolio. Note that the loan
     volume requirement for the insured institution exemption includes loans not counted under
     the small creditor exemption. See Comment 35(b)(2)(vi)(B)-1. Additionally, there is a grace
     period. If your insured institution, together with its affiliates, exceeded the loan-volume
     limit in the immediately preceding calendar year, it can still qualify for the exemption for
     applications received before April 1 of the current year, if your organization and its affiliates
     did not exceed the limit in the calendar year before the immediately preceding calendar year.
     See comment 35(b)(2)(iii)-1.ii and 35(b)(2)(vi)-1 for additional guidance on this part of the
     test.

     2. As of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, your insured institutions had total
     assets of less than $10 billion. The asset requirement adjusts automatically each year, based
     on the year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage
     Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, for each 12-month period ending in
     November. Note that the asset size requirement for the insured institution exemption does


17
     not include the asset size of affiliates. See Comment 35(b)(2)(vi)(A)-1. Additionally, there is
     a grace period. If your insured institution exceeded the asset-size limit in the preceding
     calendar year, your insured institution can still qualify for the exemption for applications
     received before April 1 of the current year, if your insured institution did not exceed the
     asset-size limit in the calendar year before the immediately preceding calendar year. See
     comment 35(b)(2)(iii)-1.iii and 35(b)(2)(vi)-1 for additional guidance on this part of the test.




4.6         How do I determine if my institution
            operates in a rural or underserved area?
            (§§ 1026.35(b)(2)(iii)(A), 35(b)(2)(iv)(A),
            35(b)(2)(iv)(B), and 35(b)(2)(iv)(C)?
To qualify for either the small creditors exemption or insured institution exemption, your
organization must have operated in a rural or underserved area in the preceding calendar year,
meaning that at least one covered transaction that your organization extended in the preceding
calendar year was secured by a first lien on a property located in a rural or underserved area. In
addition, the TILA HPML Escrow Rule includes a grace period, which allows a creditor that that
did not operate in a rural or underserved area in the preceding calendar year to continue to
qualify for the exemption for applications received before April 1 of the current year if the
creditor operated in a rural or underserved area in the calendar year prior to the immediately
preceding calendar year.

A “rural” area is : (1) a county that is not in a metropolitan statistical area nor in a micropolitan
statistical area adjacent to a metropolitan statistical area as those terms are defined by the U.S.
Office of Management and Budget and applied under currently applicable U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s Economic Research Service (USDA–ERS) Urban Influence Codes (UICs); or (2) a
census block that is not in an urban area as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau in the latest
decennial U.S. census.

An “underserved” area is a county where no more than two creditors extend five or more first-
lien covered transactions on properties in the county based on Home Mortgage Disclosure Act
data from the preceding calendar year. In June 2020, the Bureau issued an interpretive rule to
provide guidance to creditors and other persons involved in the mortgage origination process
about the way in which the Bureau determines which counties qualify as “underserved” for a


18
given calendar year. You can access that interpretive rule at
https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_interpretive-rule_determining-
underserved-areas-using-hmda-data.pdf

Since 2013, the Bureau has posted on its website lists of counties classified as rural or
underserved for a particular year. Creditors may rely on these lists to determine whether a
property is located in a “rural” or “underserved” area for the applicable year.

Creditors may also use the Rural or Underserved Areas Tool that the Bureau provides on its
public website that designates whether a property is rural or underserved, or any automated
address search tool provided on the Census Bureau’s website that specifically indicates the
urban or rural designations of properties. Creditors may rely on these tools to determine
whether a property is located in a “rural” or “underserved” area for the applicable year. See §
1026.35(b)(2)(iv)(C) and comments 35(b)(2)(iv)-1 and 35(b)(2)(iv)-2 for additional guidance on
the tools and the use of other means to determine whether a property is located in a rural or
underserved area.

You must still meet other asset size, loan volume and operational requirements to be exempt
from the TILA HPML Escrow Rule. (See “What are the loan volume and asset size
requirements to qualify for the small creditors exemption?” on page 16 and “What are the
other requirements and conditions to qualify for either the small creditors exemption or the
insured institution exemption?” below.)




4.7        What are the other requirements and
           conditions to qualify for either the small
           creditors exemption or the insured
           institution exemption?
For creditors that meet the loan volume and size and the rural or underserved requirements to
qualify for either the small creditors exemption or the insured institution exemption, there is
one additional requirement. You and your affiliates cannot maintain escrows on or beyond the
second installment due date for any loans you service, with two exceptions
(Comments 35(b)(2)(iii)-1.iv, 35(b)(2)(iii)(D)(1) and 35(b)(2)(iii)(D)(2)):



19
     1. Existing escrow accounts for: (a) transactions covered by the TILA HPML Escrow Rule (b)
     that you or your affiliates established for applications received on or after April 1, 2010, to
     120 days from the effective date of the January 2021 Final Rule (expected in February 2021).
     In order to qualify for this exception, you and your affiliates must not escrow for
     such transactions for which you receive an application on or after 120 days from the
     effective date of the January 2021 Final Rule , other than for distressed consumers as noted
     below; or

     2. Escrow accounts you or your affiliates establish after consummation for distressed
     consumers.

If your organization is eligible for the small creditors exemption or the insured institution
exemption, but you originate an HPML under a forward commitment for sale (i.e., your
organization will not hold the loan in portfolio), you must establish an escrow account unless the
loan is otherwise exempt (for example, it is a reverse mortgage) or the acquirer is also eligible
for either the small creditor or insured institution exemption. (§ 1026.35(b)(2)(v)).




4.8         Why did the Bureau exempt certain
            loans by certain creditors operating in a
            rural or underserved area from the TILA
            HPML Escrow Rule?
            (§ 1026.35(b)(2)(iv))
The Bureau believes the small creditors exemption mitigates risk to consumers while ensuring
the flow of credit to areas served by creditors that may find it too difficult or expensive to
maintain escrows. In 2018, Congress passed the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and
Consumer Protection Act (EGRRCPA), which instructed the Bureau to implement the insured
institution exemption, which also requires that a creditor operate in a rural or underserved area.




20
4.9        What does the rule say about escrowing
           for property insurance in common
           interest communities? (§ 1026.33(b)(1))
You do not need to escrow homeowner’s insurance premiums for loans secured by properties in
condominiums, planned unit developments, or other common interest communities where the
consumer must participate in a governing association that is required to purchase a master
policy insuring all dwellings.




21
5. What definitions do I need to
   know?

5.1          What is a dwelling? (§ 1026.2(a)(19))
A dwelling is a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure
is attached to real property. Individual condominium units, cooperative units, mobile homes,
and trailers used as residences are also dwellings.




5.2          What is a higher-priced mortgage loan
             (HPML)? (§ 1026.35(a)(1))
A mortgage loan is “higher-priced” if:

        It is a first-lien mortgage with an annual percentage rate (APR) that exceeds the Average
         Prime Offer Rate (APOR) by 1.5 percentage points or more.

        It is a first-lien mortgage with an APR that exceeds the APOR by 2.5 percentage points or
         more, if the principal amount of the mortgage exceeds Freddie Mac’s limit for mortgages
         it will purchase (“jumbo loan”) in effect as of the date the interest rate for the transaction
         is set.

For example, if the APOR is 5 percent, a first-lien mortgage is higher-priced if it has an APR of
6.5 percent or more and is not a jumbo loan.

The APOR is published at http://www.ffiec.gov/ratespread.

When comparing the transaction’s APR to APOR, use the rate in effect on the last date you set
(or lock) the interest rate before consummation.




22
5.3        What is an insured credit union?
           (§ 1026.35(a)(3))
An insured credit union has the meaning given in Section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act
(12 U.S.C. 1752).




5.4        What is an insured depository
           institution? (§ 1026.35(a)(4))
An insured depository institution has the meaning given in Section 3 of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).




23
6. What else do I need to
   know?
6.1         Can I structure a closed-end loan as
            open-end credit to evade this rule?
            (§ 1026.35(d))
No. You are prohibited from structuring a closed-end loan as open-end credit to evade this rule.

You may wish to consider the definition of open-end credit as you check compliance with this
provision. It includes three characteristics:

     1. You expect the consumer to take repeated draws.

     2. You may charge the consumer a finance charge or charges on the unpaid principal
     balance.

     3. The amount of credit available to the consumer (up to any limit you set) changes as the
     consumer takes and repays advances.




6.2         Can consumers cancel their escrow
            accounts before the deadlines set in the
            rule? (§ 1026.35(b)(3))
If you are required to set up an escrow account by this rule, you cannot cancel the account prior
to the fifth year after consummation unless the underlying mortgage has been terminated. A
consumer may request cancelation five years after consummation. Under this circumstance,
you may cancel the escrow account only if two conditions are met:

     1. The unpaid principal balance is less than 80 percent of the original value of the property
     securing the underlying debt obligation.


24
     2. The consumer currently is neither delinquent nor in default on the debt.




25
7. Practical implementation and
   compliance considerations
You may want to consult with legal counsel or your compliance officer to understand your
obligations under the rule and to plan for compliance with the rule’s requirements. In general,
since creditors were already complying with the rule for a larger set of transactions for a shorter
period of time, the Bureau anticipates that to comply with this rule, most creditors will generally
have to make only modest changes to their servicing systems and processes, internal controls,
subservicer contracts, or other aspects of their business operations.

How you comply with the rule may depend upon your business model. When mapping out your
compliance plan, you should consider practical implementation issues in addition to
understanding your obligations under the rule. Your implementation and compliance plan may
include:


7.1.1       Identifying affected products, departments, and staff
Your organization may offer some, or all, of the loan products discussed in the TILA HPML
Escrow Rule. You may find it useful to identify all affected products, departments, and staff.


7.1.2 Identifying the business-process, operational, and
      technology changes that will be necessary for
      compliance
Fully understanding the changes required may involve a review of your existing business
processes and recordkeeping regimes, as well as the hardware and software that you, your
agents, or other business partners use.

The TILA HPML Escrow Rule’s requirements may affect a number of parts of your business
systems and processes. For example, the servicing department will need to calculate
termination dates for escrow accounts for higher-priced mortgage loans covered by the rule.
Your organization may also seek to evaluate ways to transition out of escrowing for such loans
for applications received on or after 120 days after the January 2021 Final Rule is published in




26
the Federal Register (expected in February 2021), so that your organization can meet that part
of the test for the HPML exemptions (if you otherwise qualify for one of the exemptions).

The forms and processes you use to communicate internally and externally may be affected by
the need to verify whether your applicants live in communities that purchase master insurance
policies. You will also want to adjust your systems and processes so they no longer escrow for
insurance premiums for loans secured by dwellings in common interest communities where
dwellings owners must participate in a governing association that is required to maintain a
master property insurance policy insuring all dwellings, to the extent that those premiums were
being escrowed to comply with the Federal Reserve Board’s 2008 Final Rule implementing
changes to Regulation Z pursuant to authority granted under the Home Ownership and Equity
Protection Act.


7.1.3       Identifying critical impacts on key service providers or
           business partners

Software providers, or other vendors and business partners, may offer compliance solutions that
can assist with making the changes. These key partners will depend on your business model.
For example, banks and credit unions may find it helpful to talk to their correspondent banks,
secondary market partners, and technology vendors. In some cases, you may find it useful to
negotiate revised or new contracts with these parties, or seek a different set of services.

If you seek the assistance of vendors or business partners, make sure you understand the extent
of the assistance they provide. For example, if you use subservicers, are they prepared to follow
these escrow requirements, if applicable?

The CFPB expects supervised banks and nonbanks to have an effective process for managing the
risks of service provider relationships. For more information on this, view CFPB Bulletin 2012-
03 Service Providers.


7.1.4       Identifying training needs

Consider what training will be necessary for your loan administration, processing, compliance,
and quality-control staff as well as anyone else involved in servicing. Training may also be
required for other individuals you employ.


27
7.1.5        Considering other Title XIV rules

The TILA HPML Escrow Rule is just one component of the Bureau’s Dodd-Frank Act Title XIV
rulemakings.

Other Title XIV rules include:

        Ability-to-Repay and Qualified Mortgage Rule

        2013 HOEPA Rule

        ECOA Valuations Rule

        TILA Higher-Priced Mortgage Loans Appraisal Rule

        Loan Originator Rule

        RESPA & TILA Mortgage Servicing Rules

Each of these rules affects aspects of the mortgage industry and its regulation. Many of these
rules intersect with one or more of the others. Therefore, the compliance considerations for
these rules may overlap in your organization. You will find copies of these rules online at
http://www.consumerfinance.gov/regulations.




28
8. Other resources
8.1          Where can I find a copy of the TILA
             HPML Escrow Rule and get more
             information about it?
You will find the TILA HPML Escrow Rule and other resources that help you understand,
implement, and comply with the rule on the Bureau’s website at
https://www.consumerfinance.gov/compliance/compliance-resources/mortgage-
resources/higher-priced-mortgage-loan-escrow-rule/.

In addition, that web page also contains:

        The preamble of the Bureau’s January 2013 Final Rule, which explains why the Bureau
         issued the rule; the legal authority and reasoning behind the rule; responses to
         comments; and analysis of the benefits, costs, and impacts of the rule.

        Official Interpretations of the rule.

        Links to final rule amendments, including the May 2013 Final Rule, the October 2013
         Final Rule, the September 2015 Final Rule, the March 2016 Interim Final Rule, and the
         January 2021 Final Rule.

        Other implementation support materials including videos, reference charts, and
         proposed rule amendments.

        Useful resources related to regulatory implementation are also available at
         http://www.consumerfinance.gov/regulatory-implementation/.

For email updates about Bureau regulations and when additional implementation resources
become available, please submit your email address within the “Email updates about mortgage
rule implementation” box here.




29
