Consumer handbook
on adjustable-rate
mortgages




                     January 2014
This booklet was initially prepared by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and
the Oﬃce of Thrift Supervision in consultation with the organizations listed below. The
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) has made technical updates to the booklet to
reflect new mortgage rules under Title XIV of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act). A larger update of this booklet is planned in the
future to reflect other changes under the Dodd-Frank Act and to align with other CFPB
resources and tools for consumers as part of the CFPB’s broader mission to educate consumers.
Consumers are encouraged to visit the CPFB’s website at consumerfinance.gov/owning-a-home
to access interactive tools and resources for mortgage shoppers, which are expected to be
available beginning in 2014.


      AARP
      American Association of Residential Mortgage Regulators
      America’s Community Bankers
      Center for Responsible Lending
      Conference of State Bank Supervisors
      Consumer Federation of America
      Consumer Mortgage Coalition
      Consumers Union
      Credit Union National Association
      Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
      Federal Reserve Board’s Consumer Advisory Council
      Federal Trade Commission
      Financial Services Roundtable
      Independent Community Bankers Association
      Mortgage Bankers Association
      Mortgage Insurance Companies of America
      National Association of Federal Credit Unions
      National Association of Home Builders
      National Association of Mortgage Brokers
      National Association of Realtors
      National Community Reinvestment Coalition
      National Consumer Law Center
      National Credit Union Administration



                                     CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES         1
Table of contents
Table of contents......................................................................................................... 2

1. Introduction ........................................................................................................... 4
      1.1    Mortgage shopping worksheet ................................................................. 5

2. What is an ARM? .................................................................................................. 9

3. How ARMs work: the basic features ................................................................. 11
      3.1 Initial rate and payment .......................................................................... 11
      3.2 The adjustment period ............................................................................ 11
      3.3 The index ................................................................................................ 12
      3.4 The margin .............................................................................................. 13
      3.5 Interest-rate caps .................................................................................... 14
      3.6 Payment caps ........................................................................................... 17

4. Types of ARMs .................................................................................................... 19
      4.1 Hybrid ARMs .......................................................................................... 19
      4.2 Interest-only ARMs ................................................................................ 19
      4.3 Payment-option ARMs ........................................................................... 20

5. Consumer cautions ............................................................................................ 23
      5.1 Discounted interest rates ....................................................................... 23
      5.2 Payment shock ........................................................................................ 24


2      CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
      5.3 Negative amortization ............................................................................ 26
      5.4 Prepayment penalties and conversion ................................................... 27
      5.5 Graduated-payment or stepped-rate loans ............................................ 28

6. Where to get information ................................................................................... 29
      6.1 Disclosures from lenders ........................................................................ 29
      6.2 Newspapers and the Internet ................................................................. 30
      6.3 Advertisements ....................................................................................... 30

Appendix A: ............................................................................................................... 31
      Defined terms .................................................................................................. 31

Appendix B: ............................................................................................................... 35
      More information ............................................................................................ 35

Appendix C: ............................................................................................................... 36
      Contact information ........................................................................................ 36

Appendix D: ............................................................................................................... 40
      More resources ................................................................................................ 40




                                                  CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES                            3
1. Introduction
This handbook gives you an overview of adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs), explains how ARMs
work, and discusses some of the issues you might face as a borrower. It includes:

        ways to reduce the risks associated with ARMs;

        pointers about advertising and other sources of information, such as lenders and trusted
         advisers;

        a glossary of important ARM terms; and

        a worksheet that can help you ask the right questions and figure out whether an ARM is
         right for you. (Ask lenders to help you fill out the worksheet so you can get the
         information you need to compare mortgages.)

An ARM is a loan with an interest rate that changes. ARMs may start with lower monthly
payments than fixed-rate mortgages, but keep in mind the following:

        Your monthly payments could change. They could go up— sometimes by a lot—even if
         interest rates don’t go up. See page 20.

        Your payments may not go down much, or at all—even if interest rates go down.
         See page 16.

        You could end up owing more money than you borrowed—even if you make all your
         payments on time. See page 22.

        If you want to convert your ARM to a fixed-rate mortgage, you might not be able to.
         See page 28.

You need to compare the features of ARMs to find the one that best fits your needs. The
Mortgage Shopping Worksheet on page 6 can help you get started.



4       CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
1.1 Mortgage shopping worksheet
Ask your lender or broker to help you fill out this worksheet.




   Name of lender or broker and contact
   information



   Mortgage amount



   Loan term (e.g. 15 yr, 30 yr)



   Loan description (e.g. fixed-rate, 3/1
   ARM, payment-option ARM, interest-
   only ARM)




   Basic features for comparison               Fixed-rate mortgage   ARM 1     ARM 2         ARM 3



   Fixed-rate mortgage interest rate
   and annual percentage rate (APR)
   (for graduated-payment or stepped-
   rate mortgages, use the ARM
   columns)



   ARM initial interest rate and APR


          How long does the initial rate
           apply?




                                            CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES      5
                                            Fixed-rate mortgage   ARM 1   ARM 2   ARM 3


          What will the interest rate be
           after the initial period?


    ARM features



          How often can the interest
           rate adjust?



          What is the index and what
           is the current rate? (see
           chart on page 14)



          What is the margin for this
           loan?



    Interest-rate caps


          What is the periodic interest-
           rate cap?


          What is the lifetime interest-
           rate cap? How high could
           the rate go?


          How low could the interest
           rate go on this loan?




    What is the payment cap?




6     CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
                                            Fixed-rate mortgage   ARM 1     ARM 2         ARM 3


Can this loan have negative
amortization (that is, can the loan
amount increase)?


What is the limit to how much the
balance can grow before the loan will
be recalculated?


Is there a prepayment penalty if I pay
off this mortgage early?



How long does that penalty last?
How much is it?



Is there a balloon payment on this
mortgage? If so, what is the
estimated amount and when would it
be due?



What are the estimated origination
fees and charges for this loan?


Monthly payment amounts                     Fixed-rate mortgage   ARM 1     ARM 2         ARM 3



What will the monthly payments be
for the first year of the loan?




Does this include taxes and
insurance? Condo or homeowner’s
association fees? If not, what are the
estimates for these amounts?




                                         CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES      7
                                         Fixed-rate mortgage   ARM 1   ARM 2   ARM 3


    What will my monthly payment be
    after 12 months if the index rate…



           stays the same?




           goes up 2%?



           goes down 2%?



    What is the most my minimum
    monthly payment could be after
    one year?



    What is the most my minimum
    monthly payment could be after
    three years?



    What is the most my minimum
    monthly payment could be after
    five years?




8     CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
2. What is an ARM?
An adjustable-rate mortgage diﬀers from a fixed-rate mortgage in many ways. Most importantly,
with a fixed-rate mortgage, the interest rate and the monthly payment of principal and interest
stay the same during the life of the loan. With an ARM, the interest rate changes periodically,
usually in relation to an index, and payments may go up or down accordingly.

To compare two ARMs, or to compare an ARM with a fixed-rate mortgage, you need to know
about indexes, margins, discounts, caps on rates and payments, negative amortization, payment
options, and recasting (recalculating) your loan. You need to consider the maximum amount
your monthly payment could increase. Most importantly, you need to know what might happen
to your monthly mortgage payment in relation to your future ability to aﬀord higher payments.

Lenders generally charge lower initial interest rates for ARMs than for fixed-rate mortgages. At
first, this makes the ARM easier on your pocketbook than a fixed-rate mortgage for the same
loan amount. Moreover, your ARM could be less expensive over a long period than a fixed-rate
mortgage—for example, if interest rates remain steady or move lower.

Against these advantages, you have to weigh the risk that an increase in interest rates would lead
to higher monthly payments in the future. It’s a trade-oﬀ—you get a lower initial rate with an
ARM in exchange for assuming more risk over the long run. Here are some questions you need
to consider:
                                                    Lenders and brokers: Mortgage loans are
       Is my income enough—or likely to        oﬀered by many kinds of lenders—such as banks,
       rise enough—to cover higher              mortgage companies, and credit unions. You can also
       mortgage payments if interest rates      get a loan through a mortgage broker. Brokers
       go up?                                   “arrange” loans; in other words, they find a lender for
                                                you. Brokers generally take your application and
                                                contact several lenders, but keep in mind that
                                                brokers are not required to find the best deal for you
                                                unless they have contracted with you to act as your
                                                agent, or have a duty to do so under state law.



                                      CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES               9
         Will I be taking on other sizable debts, such as a loan for a car or school tuition, in the
          near future?

         How long do I plan to own this home? If you plan to sell soon, rising interest rates may
          not pose the problem they might if you plan to own the house for a long time.

         Do I plan to make any additional payments or pay the loan oﬀ early?




10       CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
3. How ARMs work: the basic
   features
3.1 Initial rate and payment
The initial rate and payment amount on an ARM will remain in eﬀect for a limited period—
ranging from just one month to five years or more. For some ARMs, the initial rate and payment
can vary greatly from the rates and payments later in the loan term. Even if interest rates are
stable, your rates and payments could change a lot. If lenders or brokers quote the initial rate
and payment on a loan, ask them for the annual percentage rate (APR). If the APR is
significantly higher than the initial rate, then it is likely that your rate and payments will be a lot
higher when the loan adjusts, even if general interest rates remain the same.




3.2 The adjustment period
Depending on the type of ARM loan, the interest rate and monthly payment will change every
month, quarter, year, three years, or five years. The period between rate changes is called the
adjustment period. For example, a loan with an adjustment period of one year is called a one-
year ARM, because the interest rate and payment change once every year; a loan with a three-
year adjustment period is called a three-year ARM.

If you take out an adjustable-rate mortgage, the company that collects your mortgage payments
(your servicer) must notify you about the first interest rate adjustment at least seven months
before you owe a payment at the adjusted interest rate. The advance notification needs to show:

      An estimate of the new interest rate and payment amount




                                       CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES            11
         Alternatives available to you

         How to contact a HUD-approved housing counselor

For the first interest rate adjustment, as well as for any adjustments that come later that give
you a different payment amount, your servicer must also send you another notice, at least 60
days in advance, telling you what your new payment will be.




3.3 The index
The interest rate on an ARM is made up of two parts: the index and the margin. The index is a
measure of interest rates generally, and the margin is an extra amount that the lender adds
above the index. Your payments will be aﬀected by any caps, or limits, on how high or low your
rate can go. If the index rate moves up, your interest rate will also go up in most circumstances,
and you will probably have to make higher monthly payments. On the other hand, if the index
rate goes down, your monthly payment could go down. Not all ARMs adjust downward,
however—be sure to read the information for the loan you are considering.

Lenders base ARM rates on a variety of indexes. Among the most common indexes are the rates
on one-year constant-maturity Treasury (CMT) securities, the Cost of Funds Index (COFI), and
the London Interbank Oﬀered Rate (LIBOR). A few lenders use their own cost of funds as an
index, rather than using other indexes. You should ask what index will be used, how it has
fluctuated in the past, and where it is published—you can find a lot of this information in major
newspapers and on the Internet.

To help you get an idea of how to compare diﬀerent indexes, the following chart shows a few
common indexes over an 11-year period (2003–2013). As you can see, some index rates tend to
be higher than others, and some change more often than others.




12       CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
3.4 The margin
To set the interest rate on an ARM, lenders add a few percentage points to the index rate, called
the margin. The amount of the margin may differ from one lender to another, but it usually
stays the same over the life of the loan. The fully indexed rate is equal to the margin plus the
index. For example, if the lender uses an index that currently is 4 percent and adds a 3 percent
margin, the fully indexed rate would be


  Index                                                          4%


  Margin                                                         3%


  Fully indexed rate                                             7%




                                     CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES           13
If the index on this loan rose to 5 percent, the fully indexed rate at the next adjustment would be
8 percent (5 percent + 3 percent). If the index fell to 2 percent, the fully indexed rate at
adjustment would be 5 percent (2 percent + 3 percent).

Some lenders base the amount of the margin on                 Ability to repay: When you apply for a
your credit record— the better your credit, the           loan, lenders are generally required to collect
lower the margin they add—and the lower the               and verify enough of your financial information
interest you will have to pay on your mortgage.           to determine you have the ability to repay the
The amount of the margin could also be based              loan. For example, a lender might ask to see
on other factors. In comparing ARMs, look at              copies of your most recent pay stubs, income

both the index and margin for each program.               tax filings, and bank account statements.
                                                          Lenders are generally required to consider your
If the initial rate on the loan is less than the          ability to repay the loan based on the fully
fully indexed rate, it is called a discounted (or         indexed rate, or the highest rate you will be
                                                          expected to pay in the first five years of the
“teaser”) index rate. Many ARM loans offer a
                                                          loan.
discounted index rate until the first adjustment
period, but some ARM loans have an initial rate
that is higher than the fully indexed rate.




3.5 Interest-rate caps
An interest-rate cap places a limit on the amount your interest rate can increase. Interest-rate
caps come in two versions:

         A periodic adjustment cap, which limits the amount the interest rate can adjust up or
          down from one adjustment period to the next after the first adjustment, and

         A lifetime cap, which limits the interest-rate increase over the life of the loan. By law,
          virtually all ARMs must have a lifetime cap.




14       CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
3.5.1      Periodic adjustment caps
Let’s suppose you have an ARM with a
                                                     Examples in this handbook: All examples
periodic adjustment interest-rate cap of 2
                                                 in this handbook are based on a $200,000 loan
percent. However, at the first adjustment, the   amount and a 30-year term. Payment amounts in
index rate has risen 3 percent. The following    the examples do not include taxes, insurance,
example shows what happens.                      condominium or homeowner association fees, or
                                                 similar items. These amounts can be a significant
                                                 part of your monthly payment.




In this example, because of the cap on your loan, your monthly payment in year two is $138.70
per month lower than it would be without the cap, saving you $1,664.40 over the year.

Some ARMs allow a larger rate change at the first adjustment and then apply a periodic
adjustment cap to all future adjustments.

A drop in interest rates does not always lead to a drop in your monthly payments. With some
ARMs that have interest-rate caps, the cap may hold your rate and payment below what it would


                                    CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES           15
have been if the change in the index rate had been fully applied. The increase in the interest that
was not imposed because of the rate cap might carry over to future rate adjustments. This is
called carryover. So, at the next adjustment date, your payment might increase even though the
index rate has stayed the same or declined.

The following example shows how carryovers work. Suppose the index on your ARM increased 3
percent during the first year.

Because this ARM loan limits rate increases to 2 percent at any one time, the rate is adjusted by
only 2 percent, to 8 percent for the second year. However, the remaining 1 percent increase in
the index carries over to the next time the lender can adjust rates. So, when the lender adjusts
the interest rate for the third year, even if there has been no change in the index during the
second year, the rate still increases by 1 percent, to 9 percent.




In general, the rate on your loan can go up at any scheduled adjustment date when the lender’s
standard ARM rate (the index plus the margin) is higher than the rate you are paying before that
adjustment.


3.5.2      Lifetime caps
The next example shows how a lifetime rate cap would aﬀect your loan. Let’s say that your ARM
starts out with a 6 percent rate and the loan has a 6 percent lifetime cap—that is, the rate can



16   CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
never exceed 12 percent. Suppose the index rate increases 1 percent in each of the next nine
years. With a 6 percent overall cap, your payment would never exceed $1,998.84—compared
with the $2,409.11 that it would have reached in the tenth year without a cap.




3.6 Payment caps
In addition to interest-rate caps, many ARMs—including payment-option ARMs (discussed on
page 21)—limit, or cap, the amount your monthly payment may increase at the time of each
adjustment. For example, if your loan has a payment cap of 7½ percent, your monthly payment
won’t increase more than 7½ percent over your previous payment, even if interest rates rise
more. For example, if your monthly payment in year 1 of your mortgage was $1,000, it could
only go up to $1,075 in year 2 (7½ percent of $1,000 is an additional $75). Any interest you
don’t pay because of the payment cap will be added to the balance of your loan. A payment cap
can limit the increase to your monthly payments but also can add to the amount you owe on the
loan. This is called negative amortization, a term explained on page 27.

Let’s assume that your rate changes in the first year by two percentage points, but your
payments can increase no more than 7½ percent in any one year. The following graph shows
what your monthly payments would look like.




                                    CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES         17
While your monthly payment will be only $1,289.03 for the second year, the diﬀerence of
$172.69 each month will be added to the balance of your loan and will lead to negative
amortization.

Some ARMs with payment caps do not have periodic interest-rate caps. In addition, as
explained below, most payment-option ARMs have a built-in recalculation period, usually every
five years. At that point, your payment will be recalculated (lenders use the term recast) based
on the remaining term of the loan. If you have a 30-year loan and you are at the end of year five,
your payment will be recalculated for the remaining 25 years. The payment cap does not apply
to this adjustment. If your loan balance has increased, or if interest rates have risen faster than
your payments, your payments could go up a lot.




18   CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
4. Types of ARMs
4.1 Hybrid ARMs
Hybrid ARMs often are advertised as 3/1 or 5/1 ARMs—you might also see ads for 7/1 or 10/1
ARMs. These loans are a mix— or a hybrid—of a fixed-rate period and an adjustable-rate period.
The interest rate is fixed for the first few years of these loans—for example, for five years in a 5/1
ARM. After that, the rate may adjust annually (the 1 in the 5/1 example), until the loan is paid
oﬀ. In the case of 3/1, 5/1, 7/1 or 10/1 ARMs:

        the first number tells you how long the fixed interest-rate period will be, and

        the second number tells you how often the rate will adjust after the initial period.

You may also see ads for 2/28 or 3/27 ARMs—the first number tells you how many years the
fixed interest-rate period will be, and the second number tells you the number of years the rates
on the loan will be adjustable. Some 2/28 and 3/27 mortgages adjust every six months, not
annually.




4.2 Interest-only ARMs
An interest-only (I-O) ARM payment plan allows you to pay only the interest for a specified
number of years, typically for three to 10 years. This allows you to have smaller monthly
payments for a period. After that, your monthly payment will increase—even if interest rates
stay the same—because you must start paying back the principal as well as the interest each
month.

For some I-O loans, the interest rate adjusts during the I-O period as well.



                                       CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES           19
For example, if you take out a 30-year mortgage loan with a five-year I-O payment period, you
can pay only interest for five years and then you must pay both the principal and interest over
the next 25 years. Because you begin to pay back the principal, your payments increase after
year five, even if the rate stays the same. Keep in mind that the longer the I-O period, the higher
your monthly payments will be after the I-O period ends.




4.3 Payment-option ARMs
A payment-option ARM is an adjustable-rate mortgage that allows you to choose among several
payment options each month. The options typically include the following:

          A traditional payment of principal and interest, which reduces the amount you owe on
          your mortgage. These payments are based on a set loan term, such as a 15-, 30-, or 40-
          year payment schedule.

         An interest-only payment, which pays the interest but does not reduce the amount you
          owe on your mortgage as you make your payments.




20       CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
         A minimum (or limited) payment, which may be less than the amount of interest due
          that month and may not reduce the amount you owe on your mortgage. If you choose
          this option, the amount of any interest you do not pay will be added to the principal of
          the loan, increasing the amount you owe and your future monthly payments, and
          increasing the amount of interest you will pay over the life of the loan. In addition, if you
          pay only the minimum payment in the last few years of the loan, you may owe a larger
          payment at the end of the loan term, called a balloon payment.

In addition to these options, in most cases you can choose to pay any amount over the required
minimum payment.

The interest rate on a payment-option ARM is typically very low for the first few months (for
example, 2 percent for the first one to three months). After that, the interest rate usually rises to
a rate closer to that of other mortgage loans. Your payments during the first year are based on
the initial low rate, meaning that if you only make the minimum payment each month, it will not
reduce the amount you owe and it may not cover the interest due. The unpaid interest is added
to the amount you owe on the mortgage, and your loan balance increases. This is called negative
amortization. This means that even after making many payments, you could owe more than you
did at the beginning of the loan. See a further caution about negative amortization in the
“Consumer Cautions” section below. Also, as interest rates go up, your payments are likely to go
up.

Payment-option ARMs have a built-in recalculation period, usually every five years. At this
point, your payment will be recalculated (or “recast”) based on the remaining term of the loan. If
you have a 30-year loan and you are at the end of year five, your payment will be recalculated for
the remaining 25 years. If your loan balance has increased because you have made only
minimum payments, or if interest rates have risen faster than your payments, your payments
will increase each time your loan is recast. At each recast, your new minimum payment will be a
fully amortizing payment and any payment cap will not apply. This means that your monthly
payment can increase a lot at each recast.

Lenders may recalculate your loan payments before the recast period if the amount of principal
you owe grows beyond a set limit, say 110 percent or 125 percent of your original mortgage
amount. For example, suppose you made only minimum payments on your $200,000 mortgage
and had any unpaid interest added to your balance. If the balance grew to $250,000 (125
percent of $200,000), your lender would recalculate your payments so that you would pay off
the loan over the remaining term. It is likely that your payments would go up substantially.



                                        CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES            21
More information on interest-only and payment-option ARMs is available in a Federal Reserve
Board brochure, Interest-Only Mortgage Payments and Payment-Option ARMs—Are They for
You? (available online at fdic.gov/consumers/consumer/interest-only).




22   CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
5. Consumer cautions
5.1 Discounted interest rates
Many lenders oﬀer more than one type of ARM. Some lenders oﬀer an ARM with an initial rate
that is lower than their fully indexed ARM rate (that is, lower than the sum of the index plus the
margin). Such rates—called discounted rates, start rates, or teaser rates—are often combined
with large initial loan fees, sometimes called points, and with higher rates after the initial
discounted rate expires.

Your lender or broker may oﬀer you a choice of loans that may include “discount points” or a
“discount fee.” You may choose to pay these points or fees in return for a lower interest rate. But
keep in mind that the lower interest rate may only last until the first adjustment.

If a lender oﬀers you a loan with a discount rate, don’t assume that means the loan is a good one
for you. You should carefully consider whether you will be able to aﬀord higher payments in
later years when the discount expires and the rate is adjusted.

Here is an example of how a discounted initial rate might work. Let’s assume that the lender’s
fully indexed 1-year ARM rate (index rate plus margin) is currently 6 percent; the monthly
payment for the first year would be $1,199.10. But your lender is oﬀering an ARM with a
discounted initial rate of 4 percent for the first year. With the 4 percent rate, your first-year’s
monthly payment would be $954.83.

With a discounted ARM, your initial payment will probably remain at $954.83 for only a limited
time—and any savings during the discount period may be oﬀset by higher payments over the
remaining life of the mortgage. If you are considering a discount ARM, be sure to compare
future payments with those for a fully indexed ARM. Lenders are generally required to consider
your ability to repay the loan based on the fully indexed rate, or the highest rate you will be



                                      CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES              23
expected to pay in the first five years of the loan. Even so, if you buy a home or refinance using a
deeply discounted initial rate, you run the risk of payment shock, negative amortization, or
conversion fees. You should always look at your own budget to see how high of a payment and
how big of a home loan you feel you can afford.

Another way you may get a discounted interest rate is through a “buydown.” This is when the
house seller pays an amount to the lender so the lender can give you a lower rate and lower
payments, usually for an initial period in an ARM. The seller may increase the sales price to
cover the cost of the buydown.




5.2 Payment shock
Payment shock may occur if your mortgage payment rises sharply at a rate adjustment. Let’s see
what would happen in the second year if the rate on your discounted 4 percent ARM were to rise
to the 6 percent fully indexed rate.




As the example shows, even if the index rate were to stay the same, your monthly payment
would go up from $954.83 to $1,192.63 in the second year.

Suppose that the index rate increases 1 percent in one year and the ARM rate rises to 7 percent.
Your payment in the second year would be $1,320.59.




24   CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
That’s an increase of $365.76 in your monthly payment. You can see what might happen if you
choose an ARM because of a low initial rate. While your lender generally needs to consider this
indexed rate in determining your ability to repay the loan, you also need to consider whether
you will be able to aﬀord future payments.

If you have an interest-only ARM, payment shock can also occur when the interest-only period
ends. Or, if you have a payment-option ARM, payment shock can happen when the loan is
recast.

The following example compares several diﬀerent loans over the first seven years of their terms;
the payments shown are for years one, six, and seven of the mortgage, assuming you make
interest-only payments or minimum payments. The main point is that, depending on the terms
and conditions of your mortgage and changes in interest rates, ARM payments can change quite
a bit over the life of the loan—so while you could save money in the first few years of an ARM,
you could also face much higher payments in the future.




                                     CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES         25
5.3 Negative amortization
Negative amortization means that the amount you owe increases even when you make all your
required payments on time. It occurs whenever your monthly mortgage payments are not large
enough to pay all of the interest due on your mortgage—meaning the unpaid interest is added to
the principal on your mortgage and you will owe more than you originally borrowed. This can
happen because you are making only minimum payments on a payment-option mortgage or
because your loan has a payment cap.

For example, suppose you have a $200,000, 30-year payment-option ARM with a 2 percent rate
for the first three months and a 6 percent rate for the remaining nine months of the year. Your
minimum payment for the year is $739.24, as shown in the previous graph. However, once the 6
percent rate is applied to your loan balance, you are no longer covering the interest costs. If you
continue to make minimum payments on this loan, your loan balance at the end of the first year
of your mortgage would be $201,118—or $1,118 more than you originally borrowed.

Because payment caps limit only the amount
                                                        Home prices, home equity, and ARMs:
of payment increases, and not interest-rate
                                                    Sometimes home prices rise rapidly, allowing
increases, payments sometimes do not cover          people to quickly build equity in their homes. This
all the interest due on your loan. This means       can make some people think that even if the rate
that the unpaid interest is automatically           and payments on their ARM get too high, they can
added to your debt, and interest may be             avoid those higher payments by refinancing their
charged on that amount. You might owe more          loan or, in the worst case, selling their home. It’s
later in the loan term than you did at the          important to remember that home prices do not

beginning.                                          always go up quickly—they may increase a little or
                                                    remain the same, and sometimes they fall. If
A payment cap limits the increase in your           housing prices fall, your home may not be worth
monthly payment by deferring some of the            as much as you owe on the mortgage. Also, you
                                                    may find it diﬃcult to refinance your loan to get a
interest. Eventually, you would have to repay
                                                    lower monthly payment or rate. Even if home
the higher remaining loan balance at the
                                                    prices stay the same, if your loan lets you make
interest rate then in eﬀect. When this
                                                    minimum payments (see payment-option ARMs
happens, there may be a substantial increase        above), you may owe your lender more on your
in your monthly payment.                            mortgage than you could get from selling your
                                                    home.
Some mortgages include a cap on negative
amortization. The cap typically limits the




26   CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
total amount you can owe to 110 percent to 125 percent of the original loan amount. When you
reach that point, the lender will set the monthly payment amounts to fully repay the loan over the
remaining term. Your payment cap will not apply, and your payments could be substantially
higher. You may limit negative amortization by voluntarily increasing your monthly payment.

Be sure you know whether the ARM you are considering can have negative amortization. If so,
and if you are a first-time borrower, your lender is required to make sure you get
homeownership counseling before the lender can lend you the money.




5.4 Prepayment penalties and conversion
If you get an ARM, you may decide later that you don’t want to risk any increases in the interest
rate and payment amount. When you are considering an ARM, ask whether you would be able to
convert your ARM to a fixed-rate mortgage.


5.4.1      Prepayment penalties
Some mortgage loans can require you to pay special fees or penalties if you refinance or pay off
the loan early (usually within the first three years of the loan). These are called prepayment
penalties, and they are not allowed on ARMs.


5.4.2      Conversion fees
Your agreement with the lender may include a clause that lets you convert the ARM to a fixed-
rate mortgage at designated times. When you convert, the new rate is generally set using a
formula given in your loan documents.

The interest rate or up-front fees may be somewhat higher for a convertible ARM. Also, a
convertible ARM may require a fee at the time of conversion.




                                     CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES              27
5.5 Graduated-payment or stepped-rate
   loans
Some fixed-rate loans start with one rate for one or two years and then change to another rate
for the remaining term of the loan. While these are not ARMs, your payment will go up
according to the terms of your contract. Talk with your lender or broker and read the
information provided to you to make sure you understand when and by how much the payment
will change.




28   CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
6. Where to get information
6.1 Disclosures from lenders
You should receive information in writing about each ARM program you are interested in before
you have paid a nonrefundable fee. It is important that you read this information and ask the
lender or broker about anything you don’t understand—index rates, margins, caps, and other
features such as negative amortization. After you have applied for a loan, you will get more
information from the lender about your loan, including the annual percentage rate (APR) and a
rate and payment summary table.

The APR is the cost of your credit as a yearly rate. It takes into account interest, points paid on
the loan, any fees paid to the lender for making the loan, and any mortgage insurance premiums
you may have to pay. You can compare APRs on similar ARMs (for example, compare APRs on a
5/1 and a 3/1 ARM) to determine which loan will cost you less in the long term, but you should
keep in mind that because the interest rate for an ARM can change, APRs on ARMs cannot be
compared directly to APRs for fixed-rate mortgages.

You may want to talk with financial advisers, housing counselors, and other trusted advisers.
The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) supports housing counseling
agencies throughout the country that can provide free or low-cost advice. You can search for
HUD-approved housing counseling agencies in your area on the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau’s website at consumerfinance.gov/find-a-housing-counselor or by calling HUD’s
interactive toll-free number at 800-569-4287.

Also, see the More information and Contact information appendices below for more
information available from the CFPB and a list of other federal agencies that can provide more
information and assistance.




                                      CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES           29
6.2 Newspapers and the Internet
When buying a home or refinancing your existing mortgage, remember to shop around.
Compare costs and terms, and negotiate for the best deal. Your local newspaper and the Internet
are good places to start shopping for a loan. You can usually find information on interest rates
and points for several lenders. Since rates and points can change daily, you’ll want to check
information sources often when shopping for a home loan.

The Mortgage Shopping Worksheet at the beginning of this booklet may also help you. Take it
with you when you speak to each lender or broker, and write down the information you obtain.
Don’t be afraid to make lenders and brokers compete with each other for your business by
letting them know that you are shopping for the best deal.




6.3 Advertisements
Any initial information you receive about mortgages probably will come from advertisements or
mail solicitations from builders, real estate brokers, mortgage brokers, and lenders. Although
this information can be helpful, keep in mind that these are marketing materials—the ads and
mailings are designed to make the mortgage look as attractive as possible. These ads may play
up low initial interest rates and monthly payments, without emphasizing that those rates and
payments could increase substantially later. So, get all the facts.

Any ad for an ARM that shows an initial interest rate should also show how long the rate is in
eﬀect and the APR on the loan. If the APR is much higher than the initial rate, your payments
may increase a lot after the introductory period, even if interest rates stay the same.

Choosing a mortgage may be the most important financial decision you will make. You are
entitled to have all the information you need to make the right decision. Don’t hesitate to ask
questions about ARM features when you talk to lenders, mortgage brokers, real estate agents,
sellers, and your attorney, and keep asking until you get clear and complete answers.




30   CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
APPENDIX A:




Defined terms
This glossary provides general definitions for terms commonly used in the real estate market.
They may have different legal meanings depending on the context.


  DEFINED TERM



                                 A mortgage that does not have a fixed interest rate. The rate
                                 changes during the life of the loan based on movements in an index
                                 rate, such as the rate for Treasury securities or the Cost of Funds
                                 Index. ARMs usually oﬀer a lower initial interest rate than fixed-rate
  ADJUSTABLE-RATE
                                 loans. The interest rate fluctuates over the life of the loan based on
  MORTGAGE (ARM)
                                 market conditions, but the loan agreement generally sets maximum
                                 and minimum rates. When interest rates increase, generally your
                                 loan payments increase; and when interest rates decrease, your
                                 monthly payments may decrease.



                                 The cost of credit expressed as a yearly rate. For closed-end credit,
                                 such as car loans or mortgages, the APR includes the interest rate,
  ANNUAL PERCENTAGE
                                 points, broker fees, and other credit charges that the borrower is
  RATE (APR)
                                 required to pay. An APR, or an equivalent rate, is not used in leasing
                                 agreements.



                                 A large extra payment that may be charged at the end of a mortgage
  BALLOON PAYMENT
                                 loan or lease.



                                 When the seller pays an amount to the lender so that the lender can
                                 give you a lower rate and lower payments, usually for an initial period
  BUYDOWN                        in an ARM. The seller may increase the sales price to cover the cost
                                 of the buydown. Buydowns can occur in all types of mortgages, not
                                 just ARMs.




                                    CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES                31
                                A limit on the amount that your interest rate can increase. The
                                two types of interest rate caps are periodic adjustment caps and life-
                                time caps. Periodic adjustment caps limit the interest-rate increase
     CAP, INTEREST RATE
                                from one adjustment period to the next. Lifetime caps limit the
                                interest-rate increase over the life of the loan. All adjustable-rate
                                mortgages have an overall cap.



                                A limit on the amount that your monthly mortgage payment on a loan
                                may change, usually a percentage of the loan. The limit can be
     CAP, PAYMENT               applied each time the payment changes or during the life of the
                                mortgage. Payment caps may lead to negative amortization because
                                they do not limit the amount of interest the lender is earning.



                                A provision in some ARMs that allows you to change the ARM to a
                                fixed-rate loan at some point during the term. Conversion is usually
                                allowed at the end of the first adjustment period. At the time of the
     CONVERSION CLAUSE
                                conversion, the new fixed rate is generally set at one of the rates
                                then prevailing for fixed-rate mortgages. The conversion feature may
                                be available at extra cost.



                                In an ARM with a discounted initial rate, the lender oﬀers you a lower
     DISCOUNTED INITIAL
                                rate and lower payments for part of the mortgage term (usually for 1,
     RATE (ALSO KNOWN AS
                                3, or 5 years). After the discount period, the ARM rate will probably
     A START RATE OR
                                go up depending on the index rate. Discounts can occur in all types
     TEASER RATE)
                                of mortgages, not just ARMs.


                                In housing markets, equity is the diﬀerence between the fair market
     EQUITY                     value of the home and the outstanding balance on your mortgage
                                plus any outstanding home equity loans.




32     CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
                      These ARMs are a mix—or a hybrid—of a fixed-rate period and an
                      adjustable-rate period. The interest rate is fixed for the first several
                      years of the loan; after that period, the rate can adjust annually. For
                      example, hybrid ARMs can be advertised as 3/1 or
HYBRID ARM            5/1—the first number tells you how long the fixed interest-rate period
                      will be and the second number tells you how often the rate will adjust
                      after the initial period. For example, a 3/1 loan
                      has a fixed rate for the first 3 years and then the rate adjusts once
                      each year beginning in year 4.



                      The economic indicator used to calculate interest-rate adjustments
                      for adjustable-rate mortgages or other adjustable-rate loans. The
INDEX                 index rate can increase or decrease at any time. See also the chart
                      on page 14, Selected index rates for ARMs over an 11-year period,
                      for examples of common indexes that have changed in the past.



                      The rate used to determine the cost of borrowing money, usually
INTEREST
                      stated as a percentage and as an annual rate.


                      Interest-only ARMs allow you to pay only the interest for a specified
                      number of years, typically between three and 10 years. This
                      arrangement allows you to have smaller monthly payments for a
INTEREST-ONLY (I-O)   prescribed period. After that period, your monthly payment will
ARM                   increase— even if interest rates stay the same—because you must
                      start paying back the principal and the interest each month. For
                      some I-O loans, the interest rate adjusts during the I-O period as
                      well.


                      The number of percentage points the lender adds to the index rate to
MARGIN                calculate the interest rate of an adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) at
                      each adjustment.




                         CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES                 33
                                Occurs when the monthly payments in an adjustable-rate mortgage
                                loan do not cover all the interest owed. The interest that is not paid in
                                the monthly payment is added to the loan balance. This means that
                                even after making many payments, you could owe more than you did
     NEGATIVE
                                at the beginning of the loan. Negative amortization can occur when
     AMORTIZATION
                                an ARM has a payment cap that results in monthly payments that
                                are not high enough to cover the interest due or when the minimum
                                payments are set at an amount lower than the amount you owe in
                                interest.


                                An ARM that allows the borrower to choose among several payment
                                options each month. The options typically include (1) a traditional
                                amortizing payment of principal and interest, (2) an interest-only
                                payment, or (3) a minimum (or limited) payment that may be less
     PAYMENT-OPTION ARM
                                than the amount of interest due that month. If the borrower chooses
                                the minimum-payment option, the amount of any interest that is not
                                paid will be added to the principal of the loan. See also the definition
                                of negative amortization, above.


                                One point is equal to 1 percent of the principal amount of a mortgage
                                loan. For example, if the mortgage is $200,000, one point equals
                                $2,000. Lenders frequently charge points in both fixed-rate and
                                adjustable-rate mortgages to cover loan origination costs or to
                                provide additional compensation to the lender or broker. These
     POINTS (ALSO CALLED        points usually are paid at closing and may be paid by the borrower or
     DISCOUNT POINTS)           the home seller, or may be split between them. In some cases, the
                                money needed to pay points can be borrowed (incorporated in the
                                loan amount), but doing so will increase the loan amount and the
                                total costs. Discount points (also called discount fees) are points that
                                the borrower voluntarily chooses to pay in return for a lower interest
                                rate.


                                Extra fees that may be due if you pay oﬀ your loan early by
                                refinancing the loan or by selling the home. These fees are not
     PREPAYMENT PENALTY         allowed for ARMs or for high-cost mortgages. For mortgages where
                                they are allowed, the penalty cannot go beyond the first three years
                                of the loan’s term.


     PRINCIPAL                  The amount of money borrowed or the amount still owed on a loan.




34     CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
APPENDIX B:




More information
For more information about mortgages, visit consumerfinance.gov/mortgage. For answers to
questions about mortgages and other financial topics, visit consumerfinance.gov/askcfpb. You
may also visit the CFPB’s website at consumerfinance.gov/owning-a-home to access interactive
tools and resources for mortgage shoppers, which are expected to be available beginning in
2014.

Housing counselors can be very helpful, especially for first-time home buyers or if you’re having
trouble paying your mortgage. The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
supports housing counseling agencies throughout the country that can provide free or low-cost
advice. You can search for HUD-approved housing counseling agencies in your area on the
CFPB’s website at consumerfinance.gov/find-a-housing-counselor or by calling HUD’s
interactive toll-free number at 800-569-4287.

The company that collects your mortgage payments is your loan servicer. This may not be the
same company as your lender. If you have concerns about how your loan is being serviced, or
another aspect of your mortgage, you may wish to submit a complaint to the CFPB at
consumerfinance.gov/complaint or by calling (855) 411-CFPB (2372).

When you submit a complaint to the CFPB, the CFPB will forward your complaint to the
company and work to get a response. Companies have 15 days to respond to you and the CFPB.
You can review the company’s response and give feedback to the CFPB.




                                    CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES           35
APPENDIX C:




Contact information
For additional information or to submit a complaint, you can contact the CFPB or one of the
other federal agencies listed below, depending on the type of institution. If you are not sure
which agency to contact, you can submit a complaint to the CFPB and if the CFPB determines
that another agency would be better able to assist you, the CFPB will refer your complaint to
that agency and let you know.


     Regulatory agency           Regulated entities                         Contact information


                                 Insured depository institutions and
                                 credit unions with assets greater
                                 than $10 billion (and their affiliates),
     Consumer Financial
                                 and non-bank providers of
     Protection Bureau (CFPB)                                               (855) 411-CFPB (2372)
                                 consumer financial products and
     P.O. Box 4503                                                          consumerfinance.gov
                                 services, including mortgages, credit
     Iowa City, IA 52244                                                    consumerfinance.gov/
                                 cards, debt collection, consumer
                                 reports, prepaid cards, private            complaint
                                 education loans, and payday
                                 lending




     Board of Governors of the                                              (888) 851-1920
     Federal Reserve System                                                 federalreserveconsumerhelp.g
                                 Federally insured state-chartered
     (FRB)                                                                  ov
                                 bank members of the Federal
     Consumer Help
                                 Reserve System
     P.O. Box 1200
     Minneapolis, MN 55480




36     CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
Regulatory agency            Regulated entities                  Contact information



Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency (OCC)
                             National banks and federally
Customer Assistance Group                                        (800) 613-6743
                             chartered savings
1301 McKinney Street                                             occ.treas.gov
                             banks/associations
Suite 3450                                                       helpwithmybank.gov
Houston, TX 77010




Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC)                                               (877) ASK-FDIC or
                             Federally insured state-chartered
Consumer Response Center                                         (877) 275-3342
                             banks that are not members of the
1100 Walnut Street,                                              fdic.gov
                             Federal Reserve System
Box #11                                                          fdic.gov/consumers
Kansas City, MO 64106




Federal Housing Finance                                          Consumer Helpline
Agency (FHFA) Consumer       Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the    (202) 649-3811
Communications               Federal Home Loan Banks             fhfa.gov
Constitution Center                                              fhfa.gov/Default.aspx?Page=3
400 7th Street, S.W.                                             69
Washington, DC 20219                                             ConsumerHelp@fhfa.gov




National Credit Union
Administration (NCUA)                                            (800) 755-1030
Consumer Assistance          Federally chartered credit unions   ncua.gov
1775 Duke Street                                                 mycreditunion.gov
Alexandria, VA 22314



Federal Trade
                             Finance companies, retail stores,   (877) FTC-HELP or
Commission (FTC)
                             auto dealers, mortgage companies    (877) 382-4357
Consumer Response Center
                             and other lenders, and credit       ftc.gov
600 Pennsylvania Ave, N.W.
                             bureaus                             ftc.gov/bcp
Washington, DC 20580




                                 CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES        37
     Regulatory agency          Regulated entities                   Contact information



     Securities and Exchange
                                                                     (202) 551-6551
     Commission (SEC)
                                Brokerage firms, mutual fund         sec.gov
     Complaint Center
                                companies, and investment advisers   sec.gov/complaint/select.shtml
     100 F Street, N.E.
     Washington, DC 20549




     Farm Credit
     Administration Office of
     Congressional and Public                                        (703) 883-4056
                                Agricultural lenders
     Affairs                                                         fca.gov
     1501 Farm Credit Drive
     McLean, VA 22102




     Small Business
     Administration (SBA)                                            (800) U-ASK-SBA or
     Consumer Affairs           Small business lenders               (800) 827-5722
          rd
     409 3 Street, S.W.                                              sba.gov
     Washington, DC 20416




     Commodity Futures
     Trading Commission         Commodity brokers, commodity         (866) 366-2382
     (CFTC)                     trading advisers, commodity pools,   cftc.gov/ConsumerProtection/i
            st
     1155 21 Street, N.W.       and introducing brokers              ndex.htm
     Washington, DC 20581




38     CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
Regulatory agency            Regulated entities                Contact information



U.S. Department of                                             (202) 514-4713
Justice (DOJ)                                                  TTY–(202) 305-1882
Civil Rights Division                                          FAX–(202) 514-1116
950 Pennsylvania Ave, N.W.   Fair lending and housing issues   To report an incident of
Housing and Civil                                              housing discrimination:
Enforcement Section                                            1-800-896-7743
Washington DC 20530                                            fairhousing@usdoj.gov




Department of Housing
and Urban Development
(HUD) Office of Fair                                           (800) 669-9777
                             Fair lending and housing issues
Housing/Equal Opportunity                                      hud.gov/complaints
     th
451 7 Street, S.W.
Washington, DC 20410




                                 CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES           39
APPENDIX D:




More resources
Looking for the Best Mortgage—Shop, Compare, Negotiate
hud.gov/buying/booklet.pdf

Interest-Only Mortgage Payments and Payment-Option
ARMs—Are They for You?
fdic.gov/consumers/consumer/interest-only/

A Consumer’s Guide to Mortgage Lock-Ins
federalreserve.gov/pubs/lockins/

A Consumer’s Guide to Mortgage Settlement Costs
federalreserve.gov/pubs/lockins/

Know Before You Go . . . To Get a Mortgage: A Guide to Mortgage Products and a Glossary of
Lending Terms
bos.frb.org/consumer/knowbeforeyougo/mortgage/mortgage.pdf

Online Mortgage Calculator
mortgagecalculator.org/




40   CONSUMER HANDBOOK ON ADJUSTABLE-RATE MORTGAGES
