April 2021




Ability-to-Repay and
Qualified Mortgage Rule
 Small entity compliance guide
Version log
The Bureau periodically updates this guide. Below is a version log noting the history of this
document and its updates:


    Date           Version     Summary of Changes

    April 2021     3.1         Updated to reflect the extension of the mandatory
                               compliance date for the General QM Final Rule (Sections
                               1, 2.2, 4, 4.3, 4.3.1, 4.3.2, 4.5.1).

                               Revised the discussion of the Temporary GSE QM
                               definition (Section 4.5.1).

    February       3.0         Updated to reflect the amendments set forth in the GSE
    2021                       Patch Extension Final Rule, General QM Final Rule, and
                               Seasoned QM Final Rule as follows:

                                         Revised the introduction, overview and the
                                      discussion of the effective date to include the final
                                      rules (Sections 1, 2, and 2.2);

                                         Revised the section discussing verification of
                                      income under the general ATR standard to note that
                                      a creditor is required to confirm that an inflow of
                                      funds into a consumer’s account are the consumer’s
                                      personal income if the creditor relies on those funds
                                      in making an ability-to-repay determination (Section
                                      3.3.2);

                                         Added an introduction to the section discussing
                                      General QMs (Section 4.3);

                                         Revised the discussion of the debt-to-income
                                      based General QM definition to account for the
                                      General QM Final Rule (Section 4.3.1);



1       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                            v3.1
    Date          Version     Summary of Changes

                                        Created a new section to discuss the price-
                                     based General QM definition (Section 4.3.2);

                                        Created a new section to discuss the Seasoned
                                     QM category (Section 4.4);

                                        Divided the discussion of the Temporary QMs
                                     into two subsections (Section 4.5);

                                        Revised the discussion of the Temporary GSE
                                     QM to include the GSE Patch Extension Final Rule
                                     (Section 4.5.1); and

                                        Updated the discussion of the Temporary QMs
                                     due to the issuance of the separate QM rules by
                                     various government agencies (Section 4.5.2).

                              Updated to note that the guide is a Compliance Aid under
                              the Bureau’s Policy Statement on Compliance Aids
                              (Section 1.1).

                              Updated to include current information on locating
                              additional compliance resources (Section 1.2).

                              Revised and re-organized the discussion of the general
                              ATR standard (Section 3).

                              Revised and re-organized the discussion of qualified
                              mortgages (Section 4).

                              Revised and moved the discussion of prepayment
                              penalties into a new section (Section 6).

                              Updated various sections to reflect current formatting for
                              small entity compliance guides.

                              Revised various sections to clarify that most obligations
                              under the ATR/QM Rule apply to creditors.




2      SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
    Date          Version     Summary of Changes

                              Revised internal cross references in various sections to
                              refer to section numbers instead of page numbers.

                              Deleted outdated information related to implementation of
                              the initial ATR/QM Rule.

                              Made miscellaneous and administrative changes in various
                              sections.

    March 28,     2.4         The Bureau issued a final rule, the September 2015 Final
    2016                      Rule, amending certain mortgage rules, and the March
                              2016 Interim Final Rule to:

                                     Revise the definitions of small creditor and rural
                                      area.

                                     Amend the requirements to make QM’s for small
                                      creditors.

                                     Establish a grace period to allow a creditor that
                                      does not meet the small creditor origination limit or
                                      asset limit in the preceding year to operate as a
                                      small creditor for mortgage transactions with
                                      applications received before April 1 of the current
                                      calendar year if it meets the limits in the calendar
                                      year before the preceding calendar year.

                                     Establish a grace period to allow a small creditor
                                      that did not meet the test for operating in a rural or
                                      underserved area in the preceding calendar year to
                                      operate as a small rural creditor for mortgage
                                      transactions with applications received prior to April
                                      1 of the current calendar year if it met the rural or
                                      underserved test in the calendar year before the
                                      preceding calendar year.




3      SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                             v3.1
    Date           Version     Summary of Changes

                               Temporary QM Provision. The Federal Housing
                               Administration (FHA) and the U.S. Department of Veterans
                               Affairs (VA) have each issued their own QM rules.
                               Therefore, the section of the guide that addresses this has
                               been modified.

    November 3,    2.3         The Bureau published a final rule amending certain
    2014                       mortgage rules to

                                      amend the existing exemption from the ability-to-
                                       repay rule for nonprofit entities that meet certain
                                       requirements; and

                                      provide a cure mechanism for the points and fees
                                       limit that applies to qualified mortgages.

    January 8,     2.2         Miscellaneous Administrative Changes.
    2014

    October 17,    2.1         Points-and-Fees Calculation: Loan Originator
    2013                       Compensation. Clarifies for retailers of manufactured
                               homes and their employees what compensation must be
                               counted as loan originator compensation and thus included
                               in the points and fees thresholds for qualified mortgages
                               and high-cost mortgages.

                                      Points and Fees Calculation: Non-consumer
                                       payments. Clarifies the treatment of payments
                                       made by the creditor or a seller or other third party,
                                       rather than by the consumer, for purposes of what
                                       must be included in the points and fees thresholds
                                       for qualified mortgages and high-cost mortgages.

                               Period to be considered when making Small Creditor
                               status determination after January 10, 2016. Changes the
                               look back period for rural and underserved lending activity



4       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                           v3.1
    Date           Version     Summary of Changes

                               that is used in the definition of Small Creditor, effective
                               January 10, 2016.

    August 14,     2.0         Exemptions: Creditors with certain designations, loans
    2013                       pursuant to certain programs, certain nonprofit creditors,
                               and mortgage loans made in connection with certain
                               Federal emergency economic stabilization programs are
                               exempt from ability to repay requirements.

                               Qualified Mortgages (QMs): Additional definition of a
                               qualified mortgage for loans held in portfolio by small
                               creditors.

                               Qualified Mortgages: Transitional definition of creditors
                               eligible to originate Balloon-Payment Qualified Mortgages.

                               Qualified Mortgages: Shifts the annual percentage rate
                               (APR) threshold for Small Creditor and Balloon-Payment
                               QMs from 1.5 percentage points above the average prime
                               offer rate (APOR) on first-lien loans to 3.5 percentage
                               points above APOR.

                               Points-and-Fees Calculation: Modifies the requirements
                               regarding the inclusion of loan originator compensation in
                               the points-and-fees calculation.

                               Qualified Mortgages: Clarifies how eligibility will be
                               determined for QMs under the temporary provision
                               allowing QM status for loans eligible for purchase,
                               guaranty, or insurance by the GSEs or certain federal
                               agencies.

                               Qualified Mortgages: Amends and clarifies how debt and
                               income will be determined under appendix Q for the
                               purpose of meeting the 43% DTI requirement under the
                               general QM provision.




5       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                           v3.1
    Date           Version     Summary of Changes

    April 30,      1.0         Original Document.
    2013




6       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE   v3.1
Table of contents
Table of contents ..............................................................................................................7

1. Introduction ..................................................................................................................9

      1.1 Scope of this guide ...................................................................................... 10
      1.2 Additional resources ................................................................................... 11

2. Overview of the ATR/QM Rule ..................................................................................12

      2.1 Coverage ......................................................................................................13
      2.2 Effective date...............................................................................................15
      2.3 Record retention .........................................................................................15

3. General ATR Standard………………………………………………………… 16

      3.1 Determining ATR ....................................................................................... 16

      3.2 Eight ATR underwriting factors ................................................................ 18
      3.3 Verifying information using reasonably reliable third-party records ..... 22

4. Qualified mortgages..................................................................................................28

      4.1 Presumptions of compliance ..................................................................... 28
      4.2 Requirements that apply to all QMs under the ATR/QM Rule ................31
      4.3 General QMs ...............................................................................................31

      4.4 Seasoned QMs............................................................................................ 36

      4.5 Temporary QM Definitions ....................................................................... 38
      4.6 QMs that only certain creditors are eligible to originate ......................... 39

      4.7 Points-and-fees limits ................................................................................ 43

5. Refinancing from Non-Standard to Standard Loans ............................................50




7      SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                                                     v3.1
6. Limits on prepayment penalties...............................................................................52




8     SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                                       v3.1
1. Introduction
In the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act),
Congress adopted ability-to-repay (ATR) requirements for virtually all closed-end residential
mortgage loans. Congress also established a presumption of compliance with the ATR
requirements for certain categories of mortgages, called Qualified Mortgages (QMs).

In January 2013, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Bureau) adopted a final rule
(January 2013 Final Rule) that implements the Dodd Frank Act’s ATR/QM provisions and
prepayment penalty limits. In May, July, and October 2013 and in October 2014, the Bureau
issued final rules amending certain provisions of the January 2013 Final Rule. In September
2015 and March 2016, the Bureau issued rules further amending certain small creditor
provisions. In October 2020, the Bureau issued a final rule extending an existing, temporary
category of QMs for loans eligible for purchase or guarantee by the government-sponsored
enterprises (GSEs), while operating under the conservatorship or receivership of the Federal
Housing Finance Agency. In December 2020, the Bureau issued final rules creating a new
category of QMs called Seasoned QMs and amending an existing category of QMs, General QMs.
On April 27, 2021, the Bureau issued a final rule extending the mandatory compliance date of
the December 2020 final rule that amended the General QM definition from July 1, 2021 to
October 1, 2022. This guide uses the term “ATR/QM Rule” or “Rule” to refer to the January
2013 Final Rule as amended by these additional rules.

Separately, in section 101 of the 2018 Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer
Protection Act (EGRRCPA), Congress provided protection from liability for insured depository
institutions and insured credit unions with assets below $10 billion with respect to certain ATR
requirements regarding residential mortgage loans. 1 Specifically, the protection from liability is
available if a loan: (1) is originated by and retained in portfolio by the institution, (2) complies
with requirements regarding prepayment penalties and points and fees, and (3) does not have
any negative amortization or interest-only features. Further, for the protection from liability to
apply, the institution must consider and document the debt, income, and financial resources of
the consumer. Section 101 of EGRRCPA also provides that the protection from liability is not
available in the event of legal transfer except for transfers: (1) to another person by reason of



1 EGRRCPA section 101, 15 U.S.C. 1639c(b)(2)(F).




9     SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                           v3.1
bankruptcy or failure of a covered institution; (2) to a covered institution that retains the loan in
portfolio; (3) in the event of a merger or acquisition as long as the loan is still retained in
portfolio by the person to whom the loan is sold, assigned, or transferred; or (4) to a wholly
owned subsidiary of a covered institution, provided that, after the sale, assignment, or transfer,
the loan is considered to be an asset of the covered institution for regulatory accounting
purposes. Section 101 did not require rulemaking to be effective and, as of February 2021, the
Bureau has not engaged in rulemaking addressing this category of QM loans. Further
discussion of section 101 of EGRRCPA therefore is beyond the scope of this guide, which focuses
specifically on the ATR/QM Rule.




1.1 Scope of this guide
This guide focuses on the ATR/QM Rule. Except when specifically needed to explain the Rule,
this guide does not discuss other laws, regulations, or regulatory guidance that may apply. The
content of this guide does not include any rules, bulletins, guidance, or other interpretations
issued or released after the date on the guide’s cover page. Additionally, except as noted in the
introduction in Section 1, this guide does not discuss protections from liability separately
provided by Congress under section 101 of the EGRRCPA.

This guide meets the requirements of section 212 of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement
Fairness Act of 1996 with regard to the ATR/QM Rule and is a Compliance Aid issued by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Bureau published a Policy Statement on
Compliance Aids, available at www.consumerfinance.gov/policy-compliance/rulemaking/final-
rules/policy-statement-compliance-aids/, that explains the Bureau’s approach to Compliance
Aids.

Users of this guide should review the ATR/QM Rule as well as this guide. The ATR/QM Rule is
available at www.consumerfinance.gov/compliance/compliance-resources/mortgage-
resources/ability-repay-qualified-mortgage-rule/.




10      SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
1.2 Additional resources
Additional resources to help industry understand and comply with the ATR/QM Rule are
available on the Bureau’s website at www.consumerfinance.gov/compliance/compliance-
resources/mortgage-resources/ability-repay-qualified-mortgage-rule/. You may also sign up on
this website for an email distribution list that the Bureau will use to announce additional
resources as they become available.

If you have a specific regulatory interpretation question about the ATR/QM Rule after reviewing
these resources, you can submit the question to the Bureau on its website at
reginquiries.consumerfinance.gov. Bureau staff provides only informal responses to regulatory
inquiries, and the responses do not constitute official interpretations or legal advice. Bureau
staff is not able to respond to specific inquiries within a particular requested timeframe. Actual
response times will vary based on the number of questions Bureau staff is handling and the
amount of research needed to respond to a specific question.




11   SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                         v3.1
2. Overview of the ATR/QM
   Rule
The ATR/QM Rule requires a creditor to make a reasonable and good-faith determination of a
consumer’s ability to repay at or before consummation of a covered mortgage loan. A creditor
complies with this ATR requirement if the creditor satisfies the Rule’s general ATR standard
when originating a loan. Additionally, the creditor is presumed to comply with the ATR
requirement with regard to a particular loan the creditor originates if the loan satisfies the
criteria to be a QM pursuant to the Rule.

                                                               The ATR/QM Rule does not ban any
To satisfy the ATR/QM Rule’s general ATR
                                                               particular loan features or transaction types,
standard, a creditor must consider eight factors:
                                                               but a particular loan to a particular consumer
                                                               is not permissible if the creditor does not
         The consumer’s current or reasonably
                                                               make a reasonable, good-faith determination
          expected income or assets (other than the
                                                               that the consumer has the ability to repay.
          value of the dwelling and attached real
                                                               For example, it is no longer possible to
          property securing the loan);
                                                               originate loans based on stated income.
                                                               Additionally, the Rule has specific
         The consumer’s employment status, if the
                                                               requirements and limitations related to loans
          creditor relies on income from employment
                                                               with certain nontraditional features.
          in determining the consumer’s ATR;

         The consumer’s monthly mortgage loan payment;

         The consumer’s monthly payment for mortgage-related obligations (e.g., property taxes,
          homeowner’s association and condominium fees, and certain ongoing expenses that are
          related to the mortgage loan and required by the creditor);

         The consumer’s monthly payments on simultaneous loans that are secured by the same
          property;

         The consumer’s current debt obligations, alimony, and child-support payments;

         The consumer’s monthly debt-to-income ratio or residual income; and

         The consumer’s credit history.



12       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                        v3.1
The creditor must also verify information it relied on when making its ATR determination. The
Rule’s general ATR standard is discussed in Section 3.

The ATR/QM Rule provides a presumption that a creditor has complied with the ATR
requirement if the creditor originates a QM. In exchange for meeting certain requirements,
QMs receive either a conclusive or a rebuttable presumption that the creditor complied with the
ATR/QM Rule’s requirements. Except for Seasoned QMs, the type of presumption depends on
the pricing of the loan, i.e., whether the loan is not higher-priced or is higher-priced. The Rule’s
provisions related to QMs are discussed in Section 4.

A creditor is not required to comply with the Rule’s ATR requirements if the creditor satisfies
the Rule’s conditions for the refinancing of a non-standard mortgage loan to a standard
mortgage loan. The conditions for this exception are discussed in Section 5.

The ATR/QM Rule implements other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that limit prepayment
penalties. The Rule’s limits on prepayment penalties are discussed in Section 6.




2.1 Coverage
The ATR/QM Rule applies to almost all closed-end               The ATR/QM Rule’s ATR requirements only
consumer credit transactions secured by a dwelling             apply to a loan modification if it is a
including any real property attached to the                    refinancing under Regulation Z, 12 CFR
dwelling. 12 CFR 1026.43(a). This means that the               1026.20. See comment 43(a)-1. For
Rule generally applies to loans made to consumers              information on how the ATR/QM Rule
and secured by residential structures that contain             applies to assumptions, see the Bureau’s
                                                               2014 interpretive rule, 79 Fed. Reg. 41631
one to four units, including condominiums and co-
                                                               (July 17, 2014).
ops. See 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(19). Unlike some other
mortgage rules, the ATR/QM Rule is not limited to
first-lien loans or to loans secured by a primary residence.

However, some specific categories of loans are excluded from the Rule’s ATR requirements.
Specifically, the Rule’s ATR requirements do not apply to any of the following:




13   SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                               v3.1
      Open-end credit plans (home equity lines of credit or HELOCs) subject to 12 CFR
     1026.40. However, a loan may not be structured as open-end credit to evade the Rule’s ATR
     requirements. 12 CFR 1026.43(h).

      Timeshare plans.

      Reverse mortgages subject to 12 CFR 1026.33.

      Temporary or bridge loans with terms of 12 months or less (with possible renewal).

      A construction phase of 12 months or less (with possible renewal) of a construction-to-
     permanent loan.

      Loans secured by vacant land.

12 CFR 1026.43(a).

In addition, certain types of creditors or loan programs may be exempt from the ATR/QM Rule’s
ATR requirements. See 12 CFR 1026.43(a)(3)(iv) through (vi). Extensions of credit made by
any of the following creditors are exempt from the ATR/QM Rule’s ATR requirements:

         Creditors designated by the U.S. Department of the Treasury as Community
          Development Financial Institutions.

         Creditors designated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
          (HUD) as either a Community Housing Development Organization or a Downpayment
          Assistance Provider of Secondary Financing, under certain conditions.

         Creditors designated as nonprofit organizations under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal
          Revenue Code of 1986 that extend dwelling-secured credit no more than 200 times
          annually, provide dwelling-secured credit only to low-to-moderate income consumers,
          and follow their own written procedures to determine that consumers have a reasonable
          ability to repay their loans. Note that some subordinate liens are not counted towards
          the 200-credit extension limit. See 12 CFR 1026.43(a)(3)(vii).

12 CFR 1026.43(a)(3)(v).

Extensions of credit made by housing finance agencies directly to consumers, as well as
extensions of credit made by other creditors pursuant to a program administered by a housing
finance agency, are exempt from the ATR requirements. This ATR exemption applies to
extensions of credit made pursuant to a program administered by a housing finance agency,


14       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                     v3.1
regardless of the funding source (e.g., federal, state, or other sources). 12 CFR
1026.43(a)(3)(iv).

Extensions of credit made pursuant to an Emergency Economic Stabilization Act program, such
as extensions of credit made pursuant to a State Hardest Hit Fund program, are also exempt
from the ATR requirements. 12 CFR 1026.43(a)(3)(vi).

The exemptions above apply to all loans made by these creditors or pursuant to these loan
programs, provided the conditions for the exemption are satisfied. An exempt loan remains
exempt even if it is sold, assigned, or otherwise transferred to a creditor that would not qualify
for the exemption. The ATR/QM Rule’s ATR requirements do not apply to these loans. Thus, a
loan that is eligible for one of these exemptions is not eligible for QM status, as the QM
provisions are only applicable to loans subject to the Rule’s ATR requirements. A consumer who
obtained a loan that was exempt would have no ATR claim under the Rule.




2.2 Effective date
The ATR/QM Rule originally took effect on January 10, 2014. The Bureau has—from time to
time—issued rule updates that have different effective dates. Most recently, the Bureau issued
the Patch Extension Final Rule, the General QM Final Rule, and the Seasoned QM Final Rule.
The Patch Extension Final Rule took effect on December 28, 2020. The General QM Final Rule
and the Seasoned QM Final Rules are effective on March 1, 2021. However, compliance with the
General QM Final Rule is not mandatory until October 1, 2022. See Sections 4.3 through 4.5 of
this Guide for more information.




2.3 Record retention
The ATR/QM Rule requires creditors to retain evidence of compliance with the ATR/QM Rule,
including the prepayment penalty limits, for three years after consummation. 12 CFR
1026.25(c)(3). Creditors may want to keep records for a longer period, and nothing in the Rule
prohibits them from doing so.




15   SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
3. General ATR standard
Section 3.1 provides general information about the general ATR standard and making a
reasonable and good-faith determination of a consumer’s ability to repay a loan. Section 3.2 sets
forth the eight factors a creditor must consider when making a reasonable and good-faith
determination of a consumer’s ability to repay a covered mortgage loan. Section 3.3 discusses
the use of reasonably reliable third-party records to verify the information used to make a
reasonable and good-faith determination of a consumer’s ability to repay.




3.1             Determining ATR
The general ATR standard requires a creditor to make a reasonable and good-faith
determination of a consumer’s ability to repay at or before consummation of a covered mortgage
loan. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(1). However, the ATR/QM Rule does not provide comprehensive
underwriting standards for creditors to use when making such a determination. As long as
creditors consider the eight factors discussed in Section 3.2 and verify the information that they
relied on when considering those factors as discussed in Section 3.3, creditors are permitted to
develop their own underwriting standards and make changes to those standards over time in
response to empirical information and changing economic and other conditions. See comment
43(c)(1)-1.i.

To help creditors incorporate the ATR concepts into their operations, the Bureau has prepared
some examples that illustrate how internal policies can influence ATR determinations. The list
below is not a comprehensive list of all the ways
underwriting guidelines might measure ATR. Each                   Creditors should check their
creditor must look at the issue of ATR in the context of          policies and procedures to ensure
the facts and circumstances relevant to the applicable            that they incorporate
market, the creditor’s organization, and the creditor’s           consideration of each of the eight
individual consumers.                                             factors. However, the ATR/QM
                                                                  Rule does not require validation
Given these caveats, here are some of the types of factors        of underwriting criteria using
that may show that an ATR determination was                       mathematical models.
reasonable and in good faith:




16    SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
             Underwriting standards: The creditor used standards to underwrite the transaction
              that have historically resulted in comparatively low rates of delinquency and default
              during adverse economic conditions.
             Payment history: The consumer paid on time for a significant time after origination
              or reset of an adjustable-rate mortgage.

Comment 43(c)(1)-1.ii.
                                                              If a consumer has trouble repaying a loan,
Among the types of factors that may show that an              the consumer could claim that the creditor
ATR determination was not reasonable and in                   violated the ATR/QM Rule by failing to make
good faith:                                                   a reasonable, good-faith determination of
                                                              their ATR before making the loan. However,
      Underwriting standards: The creditor
                                                              the ATR determination applies to
     ignored evidence that its underwriting                   information known at or before
     standards are not effective at determining               consummation. For example, a reduction in
     consumers’ repayment ability.                            the consumer’s income due to a job loss that
                                                              cannot be reasonably anticipated at or before
      Inconsistency: The creditor applied
                                                              origination is not relevant to determining
     underwriting standards inconsistently or used            compliance with the ATR/QM Rule.
     underwriting standards different from those it           Comment 43(c)(1)-2.
     used for similar loans without having a
     reasonable justification.                                There is a three-year statute of limitations on
                                                              ATR claims brought as affirmative cases.
      Payment history: The consumer defaults                 Additionally, after the statute of limitations
     early in the loan, or shortly after the loan             on affirmative ATR claims expires,
     resets, without having experienced a                     consumers can bring ATR claims as
     significant financial challenge or life-altering         setoff/recoupment claims in a defense to
                                                              foreclosure.
     event.

Comment 43(c)(1)-1.ii.

The reasonableness and good faith of a determination of ATR depends on the facts and
circumstances relevant to the particular loan. For example, a particular ATR determination may
be reasonable and in good faith even though the consumer defaulted shortly after
consummation if, for example, the consumer experienced a sudden and unexpected loss of
income. Comment 43(c)(1)-1.




17     SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                            v3.1
If the records the creditor reviews indicate there will be a change in the consumer’s repayment
ability after consummation (for example, the consumer plans to retire and not obtain new
employment or plans to transition from full-time to part-time work), the creditor must consider
that information. Comment 43(c)(1)-2. However, the creditor may not make inquiries or
verifications prohibited by Regulation B. Comment 43(c)(1)-3.




3.2 Eight ATR underwriting factors
To satisfy the general ATR standard, a creditor must consider the following eight factors at or
before consummation of a covered mortgage loan:

     1. The consumer’s current or reasonably expected income or assets (other than the value of
     the dwelling and attached real property that secures the loan) that the consumer will rely
     on to repay the loan. Income does not have to
     be income from full-time employment or                       Creditors must retain evidence that they
     salaried income to be considered in an ATR                   considered the eight factors, to comply with
     determination. A creditor can consider                       the ATR/QM Rule’s record retention
     seasonal or bonus income, rental income,                     requirement. See 12 CFR 1026.25(c)(3).
     commissions, interest payments, dividends,
     retirement benefits, trust income, public assistance payments, alimony, child support, and
     other sources of income. Comment 43(c)(2)(i)-1. A creditor can also consider future income
     if a creditor verifies it is using reasonably reliable third-party records. See comment
     43(c)(2)(i)-3. A creditor may also consider assets other than the value of the dwelling and
     any attached real property that secures the loan. For example, a creditor may consider funds
     in a savings account, amounts vested in a retirement account, stocks, bonds, certificates of
     deposit, and amounts available to the consumer from a trust fund. Comment 43(c)(2)(i)-1.

     2. The consumer’s current employment status (if a creditor relies on employment income
     when assessing the consumer’s ability to repay). A creditor can consider many types of
     employment to make an ATR determination, including full-time, part-time, seasonal,
     irregular, military, and self-employment. Comment 43(c)(2)(ii)-1. A creditor must consider
     the characteristics of the consumer’s type of employment.

     3. The monthly mortgage payment for the loan that the creditor is underwriting. The
     creditor generally must calculate this monthly mortgage payment using the introductory or
     fully indexed interest rate, whichever is higher, and monthly, fully amortizing payments that




18    SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                              v3.1
     are substantially equal. Additional information on calculating monthly mortgage payments
     is in Section 3.2.1.

     4. The monthly payment on any simultaneous loans secured by the same dwelling.
     Additional information on calculating payments for simultaneous loans is in Section 3.2.2.

     5. Monthly mortgage-related obligations. These obligations include expected property
     taxes, fees and special assessments imposed by a condominium, cooperative, or
     homeowner’s association, ground rent, certain lease payments, and certain insurance
     premiums and similar charges that are required by the creditor. See 12 CFR 1026.43(b)(8)
     and related commentary.

     6. The consumer’s current debts, alimony, and child-support obligations. Examples of
     current debts include student loans, auto loans, revolving debt, and existing mortgages not
     being paid off at or before consummation. Comment 43(c)(2)(vi)-1. Creditors have
     significant flexibility to consider current debt obligations in light of facts and circumstances,
     including that an obligation is likely to be paid off soon after consummation. Similarly,
     creditors should consider whether debt obligations in forbearance or deferral at the time of
     underwriting are likely to affect the consumer’s ability to pay after the expiration of the
     forbearance or deferral period. Comment 43(c)(2)(vi)-1. When two or more consumers
     apply as joint obligors with primary liability on a loan, a creditor must consider the debt
     obligations of both of them in assessing their ability to repay the loan. However, the creditor
     does not have to consider the debt obligations of someone who is merely a guarantor or
     surety on the loan. Comment 43(c)(2)(vi)-2. See the discussion in comment 43(c)(3)-3
     regarding when it is appropriate to disregard information in a credit report because it is
     disputed or inaccurate.

     7. The consumer’s monthly debt-to-income (DTI) ratio or residual income. The monthly
     DTI ratio or residual income must be calculated using the total of all of the mortgage and
     non-mortgage obligations listed above, compared to total monthly income. Additional
     information on calculating the DTI ratio and residual income is in Section 3.2.3.

     8. The consumer’s credit history. Credit history might include information about number
     and age of credit lines, payment history, judgments, collections, bankruptcies, and
     nontraditional credit references, such as rental payment history or utility payments. See
     comment 43(c)(2)(viii)-1. While the ATR/QM Rule requires that the creditor consider the
     consumer’s credit history, it does not prescribe a particular type of credit history to consider
     or prescribe specifically how to evaluate the credit history information. 12 CFR
     1026.43(c)(2)(viii); comment 43(c)(2)(viii)-1. When two or more consumers apply as joint
     obligors with primary liability on a loan, a creditor must consider the credit histories of both


19    SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
     of them in assessing their ability to repay the loan. However, the creditor does not have to
     consider the credit history of someone who is merely a guarantor or surety on the loan.
     Comment 43(c)(2)(viii)-2. See the discussion in comment 43(c)(3)-3 regarding when it is
     appropriate to disregard information in a credit report because it is disputed or inaccurate.

12 CFR 1026.43(c)(2).

The ATR/QM Rule does not preclude a creditor from considering additional factors when
making a determination of a consumer’s ability to repay a loan but requires a creditor to
consider at least these eight factors in order to satisfy the Rule’s general ATR standard.


          3.2.1 Calculating payments under the ATR standard for
          the covered mortgage loan being originated
Generally, the creditor calculates the monthly payment on the covered mortgage loan for ATR
purposes using the greater of the fully indexed rate or the introductory rate and substantially
equal monthly payments that would fully amortize the loan. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(5). Payments
are substantially equal if, for example, no two monthly payments vary by more than 1 percent.
For loans paid quarterly or annually, the creditor must convert the payments into monthly
payments for purposes of determining ATR. Comment 43(c)(5)(i)-3.

However, there are also special rules and guidance provided for certain types of loans:

         For balloon loans, the calculation depends on whether the loan is a higher-priced loan.
          Higher-priced loans are generally defined as having an annual percentage rate (APR)
          that, as of the date the interest rate is set, exceeds the Average Prime Offer Rate (APOR)
          by 1.5 percentage points or more for first-lien loans and 3.5 percentage points or more
          for subordinate-lien loans. 12 CFR 1026.43(b)(4). APOR is published weekly at
          www.ffiec.gov/ratespread. For non-higher-priced balloon loans, the monthly payment
          used for ATR purposes is the maximum payment scheduled during the first five years
          after the first regular periodic payment comes due. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(5)(ii)(A)(1). For
          higher-priced balloon loans, the monthly payment used for ATR purposes is the
          maximum payment in the payment schedule, including any balloon payment. 12 CFR
          1026.43(c)(5)(ii)(A)(2).

         For interest-only loans, the creditor calculates the monthly payment using the greater of
          the fully indexed or introductory rate and substantially equal, monthly payments of



20       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                       v3.1
          principal and interest that will repay the outstanding loan amount on the date the loan
          recasts over the remaining term of the loan. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(5)(ii)(B).

         For negative-amortization loans, the creditor calculates the monthly payment using the
          maximum loan amount (which will include the potential added principal assuming the
          consumer makes the minimum required payments until the date the loan recasts), the
          greater of the fully indexed or introductory rate, and substantially equal monthly
          payments of principal and interest that will repay that maximum loan amount on the
          date the loan recasts over the remaining term of the loan. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(5)(ii)(C).


          3.2.2 Calculating payments for simultaneous loans
          secured by the same property
If a creditor knows or has reason to know that there is going to be a simultaneous loan (such as a
piggy-back loan or a silent second mortgage loan) made at or before the time the covered
mortgage loan will be consummated, the creditor must consider the payment on the
simultaneous loan in accordance with the following requirements:

         For simultaneous loans that are not HELOCs subject to 12 CFR 1026.40, the ATR
          assessment must include a monthly payment for the simultaneous loan that is calculated
          using the appropriate calculation method for covered mortgage loans as discussed in
          Section 3.2.1. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(6)(i).

         For simultaneous loans that are HELOCs subject to 12 CFR 1026.40, the ATR
          assessment must include a payment for the simultaneous loan that is calculated based on
          the periodic payment required under the terms of the plan and the amount of credit to be
          drawn down at or before consummation of the covered mortgage loan. 12 CFR
          1026.43(c)(6)(ii).

The creditor must also take into account any mortgage-related obligations for the simultaneous
loan. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(6).




21       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                      v3.1
          3.2.3 Calculating and considering DTI ratio and residual
          income under the general ATR standard
The general ATR standard requires creditors to consider the consumer’s DTI ratio or residual
income but does not contain specific DTI ratio or residual income thresholds. 12 CFR
1026.43(c)(2)(vii) and (c)(7); comment 43(c)(7)-1.

When calculating the consumer’s monthly income for purposes of the DTI ratio or residual
income, a creditor can include earned income (e.g., wages or salary), unearned income (e.g.,
interest and dividends), and other regular payments to the consumer (e.g., alimony, child
support, or government benefits). 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(7)(i)(B). In all cases, the creditor must
verify the amounts it relies upon to determine ATR. Additional information on verification is
discussed in Section 3.3.

When calculating a consumer’s monthly debt for purposes of the DTI ratio or residual income,
the creditor will need to determine the consumer’s total monthly payments for:

         The loan that the creditor is underwriting (calculated as discussed in Section 3.2.1);

         Any simultaneous loans secured by the same property (calculated as discussed in Section
          3.2.2);

         Mortgage-related obligations (e.g., property taxes, insurance required by the creditor,
          and certain other costs related to the property such as fees owed to a condominium,
          cooperative, or homeowner’s association, ground rent or leasehold payments, and special
          assessments); and

         Current debt obligations, alimony, and child support.

12 CFR 1026.43(c)(7)(i)(A).




3.3 Verifying information using reasonably
reliable third-party records
A creditor generally must verify the information it relies on when determining a consumer’s
repayment ability using reasonably reliable third-party records. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(3) and (4).



22       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                       v3.1
The ATR/QM Rule defines third-party records to include, among other things, records prepared
by an appropriate person other than the consumer, the creditor, the mortgage broker, or the
creditor’s or mortgage broker’s agent. 12 CFR 1026.43(b)(13)(i). For example, a creditor
generally cannot rely on what consumers say about their income. A creditor must verify a
consumer’s income using reasonably reliable third-party records such as W-2s or payroll
statements. See 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(4) and related commentary.

A creditor may rely on third-party records a consumer provides as long as the records are
reasonably reliable and specific to the consumer. 12 CFR 1026.43(b)(13); comments 43(c)(3)-1
and -2. The Rule defines third-party records to
                                                            While a creditor does not have to retain
include, among other things, records prepared by
                                                            actual paper copies of records used in
the consumer, the creditor, the mortgage broker, or
                                                            underwriting a transaction, the creditor
the creditor’s or mortgage broker’s agent, if the           must be able to reproduce such records
record is reviewed by an appropriate third party.           accurately. For example, if a creditor
Comment 43(b)(13)(i)-1. For example, a cattle               uses a consumer’s W-2 tax form to
rancher might provide an updated profit-and-loss            verify income, the creditor must be able
statement for the current year to supplement tax            to reproduce the form itself, not merely
returns from prior years. These records are                 the income information that was
reasonably reliable third-party records to the extent       contained in the form. Comment
                                                            25(c)(3)-1. Accordingly, a creditor can
that an appropriate third party has reviewed them.
                                                            obtain records transmitted
For example, if a third-party accountant prepared
                                                            electronically, such as via email or a
or reviewed the cattle rancher’s profit-and-loss
                                                            secure external Internet link to access
statement, then a creditor can use the statement to
                                                            information, if the creditor can retain or
verify the rancher’s current income. Comment                otherwise reproduce such records
43(b)(13)(i)-1.                                             accurately during the three years the
                                                            creditor must retain ATR records.
Although a creditor must verify the income it relies
                                                            Comment 43(b)(13)-1.
on to determine ATR, it is not required to verify
income that it does not rely on to determine ATR.
For example, if a consumer has a full-time job and a part-time job and the creditor uses only the
income from the full-time job to determine the consumer’s ability to repay, the creditor does not
need to verify the income from the part-time job. Additionally, if two or more consumers apply
for a mortgage, a creditor does not have to consider and verify both incomes—unless both
incomes are required to qualify for the loan and demonstrate ability to repay the loan. 12 CFR
1026.43(c)(3) and (4); comments 43(c)(4)-1 and -2.



23   SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
          3.3.1 Verification of income, assets, and employment
          status
A creditor must use reasonably reliable third-party records to verify the amounts of income and
assets that the creditor relies on when making
its ATR determination. The following list                    Copies of tax-return transcripts or payroll
                                                             statements can be obtained directly from the
provides some examples of records that a
                                                             consumer or from a service provider and
creditor may be able to use, but is not an
                                                             need not be obtained directly from a
exhaustive or all-inclusive list:
                                                             government agency or employer, as long as
                                                             the records are reasonably reliable and
         Tax return transcript issued by the IRS;
                                                             specific to the individual consumer.
         Copies of tax returns the consumer filed           Comment 43(c)(3)-2.
          with the IRS or a state taxing authority;
                                                             A creditor can also consider future income if
         Federal, state, or local government                a creditor verifies it is using reasonably
          agency letters detailing the consumer’s            reliable third-party records. For example, if
                                                             a consumer accepts a job in March, but will
          income, benefits, or entitlements;
                                                             not start until May, the creditor can consider
         W-2 forms or other IRS forms for                   the future expected income if the employer
          reporting wages or tax withholding;                will confirm the job offer and salary in
                                                             writing. Comment 43(c)(2)(i)-3.
         Payroll statements, including military
          leave and earnings statements;

         Financial institution records, such as bank account statements or investment account
          statements reflecting the value of particular assets;

         Records from the consumer’s employer or a third party that obtained consumer-specific
          income information from the employer;

         Check-cashing receipts; and

         Remittance-transfer receipts.

12 CFR 1026.43(c)(4) and related commentary.




24       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                            v3.1
A creditor is required to confirm that an inflow of funds into a consumer’s account are the
consumer’s personal income if the creditor relies on those funds in making an ATR
determination. For example, a creditor would not meet the verification requirements of the
ATR/QM Rule if it observes an unidentified deposit in the consumer’s account but fails to take
any measures to confirm or lacks any basis to conclude that the deposit represents the
consumer’s personal income and is not from another source, such as proceeds from a loan.
Comment 43(c)(4)-4.

If a consumer has more income than, in the creditor’s reasonable and good-faith judgment, is
needed to repay the loan, the creditor does not have to verify the extra income. For example, if a
consumer has both a full-time and a part-time job and the creditor reasonably determines that
income from the full-time job is enough for the consumer to be able to repay the loan, the
creditor does not have to verify income from the part-time job. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(3) and (4);
comment 43(c)(4)-1.

A creditor can document a consumer’s employment status by calling the employer and getting
oral verification, as long as the creditor maintains a record of the information obtained on the
call. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(3)(ii).


          3.3.2 Verification of mortgage-related obligations
The following list provides some examples of records that a creditor may be able to use to verify
mortgage-related obligations, but is not an exhaustive or all-inclusive list:

         Title report listing expected property taxes if the source of the information was a local
          taxing authority;

         Records from government organizations such as a tax authority or local government;

         Billing statement from a condominium, homeowner’s or other association;

         Statement from the assessing entity (for example, a water district bill); and

         A current ground rent agreement or an existing lease agreement.

Comment 43(c)(3)-5.




25       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                        v3.1
       3.3.3 Verification of debt obligations, child support,
       alimony, and simultaneous loans
Generally, a creditor does not need to obtain individual statements for each of a consumer’s
debts and can use a credit report to verify a consumer’s debt obligations. However, a credit
report does not serve as a reasonably reliable third-party record for purposes of verifying items
that do not appear on the credit report. For example, certain monthly debt obligations, such as
legal obligations like alimony or child support, may not be reflected on a credit report. Thus, a
credit report that does not list a consumer’s monthly alimony obligation does not serve as a
reasonably reliable third-party record for purposes of verifying that obligation. Comment
43(c)(3)-3. Additionally, if a creditor knows or has reason to know that a credit report may be
inaccurate in whole or in part, the creditor complies with the ATR/QM Rule by disregarding an
inaccurate or disputed item, items, or credit report, but does not have to obtain additional third-
party records. For additional information on verification of debt obligations using a credit
report, see comments 43(c)(3)-3 and -6.

A credit report will not reflect a simultaneous loan that has not yet been consummated and may
not reflect a loan that has just recently been consummated. If a creditor knows or has reason to
know that there will be a simultaneous loan extended at or before consummation, the creditor
may verify the simultaneous loan by obtaining third-party verification from the creditor of the
simultaneous loan. For example, the creditor may obtain a copy of the promissory note or other
written verification. Comment 43(c)(3)-4.

If the consumer lists a debt obligation that does not show up on the credit report, a creditor may
accept the consumer’s statement about the existence and amount of the obligation without
further verification. 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(3)(iii).


       3.3.4 Verification of credit history
Generally, a credit report is considered a reasonably reliable third-party record for verification
of a consumer’s credit history. However, if a creditor knows or has a reason to know that the
information on a consumer’s credit report may be inaccurate, the creditor can ignore it. For
example, there might be a fraud alert or a dispute on the credit report, or the consumer may
present other evidence that the creditor reasonably finds to be reliable and contradicts the credit
report. In those cases, the creditor may choose to disregard the inaccurate or disputed items.
Comment 43(c)(3)-3.



26   SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                         v3.1
A creditor can verify credit history using reasonably reliable third-party records that show
nontraditional credit references, such as rental payment history or utility payments. Comment
43(c)(3)-7.




27   SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                        v3.1
4. Qualified mortgages
The ATR/QM Rule has several categories of QMs. All creditors are eligible to originate General
QMs, which are discussed in Section 4.3, and loans that become Seasoned QMs, which are
discussed in Section 4.4. However, only certain small creditors are eligible to originate Small
Creditor QMs and Balloon-Payment QMs, which are discussed in Section 4.6. In addition to
these four categories of QMs, the Rule has a temporary category of QMs, which expires on the
earlier of October 1, 2022 or the date on which the government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs)
exit conservatorship. A loan may qualify as a Temporary GSE QM only if the creditor receives
the application for the loan before October 1, 2022 or the date the applicable GSE exists
conservatorship, whichever occurs first. Additional information regarding Temporary QMs is
available in Section 4.5. Criteria that apply to all QMs under the Rule are discussed in Sections
4.2 and 4.7.

Mortgage loans that satisfy the criteria for one or more categories of QMs set forth in the
ATR/QM Rule are presumed to comply with the Rule’s ATR requirements. If a QM is higher-
priced (as defined in the Rule) and is not a Seasoned QM, the presumption of compliance is
rebuttable. Otherwise, the presumption of compliance is conclusive (i.e., the QM has a safe
harbor from liability under the Rule). The presumptions of compliance are discussed in Section
4.1.


4.1 Presumptions of compliance
A mortgage loan that satisfies the criteria for one or more categories of QMs set forth in the
ATR/QM Rule is presumed to comply with the Rule’s ATR requirements. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(1).

Generally, originating a loan as a QM provides the creditor with either a rebuttable or a
conclusive presumption of compliance with the ATR/QM Rule’s ATR requirement for that loan.
Whether the presumption of compliance is rebuttable or conclusive generally depends on
whether the QM is a higher-priced loan, as defined in the Rule. If the QM is a higher-priced
loan, the creditor receives a rebuttable presumption of compliance for that loan. If the QM is
not a higher-priced loan, the creditor receives a conclusive presumption of compliance for that
loan. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(1). However, if a loan is a Seasoned QM, the creditor receives a
conclusive presumption of compliance regardless of whether the loan is a higher-priced loan. 12
CFR 1026.43(e)(1)(i)(B). For more information on these presumptions of compliance, see


28     SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                       v3.1
Sections 4.1.1 and 4.1.2. For more information on determining whether a QM is a higher-priced
loan, see Section 4.1.3.


       4.1.1 Conclusive presumption of compliance (i.e., safe
       harbor)
All Seasoned QMs and other QMs that are not higher-priced loans are conclusively presumed to
comply with the ATR/QM Rule’s ATR requirements (i.e., the QM has a safe harbor from liability
under the Rule). 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(1)(i).

Under the safe harbor, if a court finds that a loan is a QM, then that finding conclusively
establishes compliance with the ATR/QM Rule’s ATR requirements.

For example, a consumer could claim that a creditor did not make a reasonable and good-faith
determination of repayment ability when it originated a loan subject to the ATR/QM Rule. If a
court finds that the loan is a Seasoned QM or is another type of QM and is not a higher-priced
loan, the consumer would lose this claim.

The consumer could attempt to show that the loan is not a QM, and therefore is not presumed to
comply with the ATR requirements. However, if the loan is indeed a QM and is not higher-
priced, the consumer has no recourse under the ATR/QM Rule.


       4.1.2 Rebuttable presumption of compliance
QMs (other than Seasoned QMs) that are higher-priced loans provide the creditor with a
rebuttable presumption of compliance with the ATR requirements, but that presumption can be
rebutted. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(1)(ii).

If a court finds that a loan is a QM (other than a Seasoned QM) and a higher-priced loan, a
consumer can rebut the presumption that the creditor complied with ATR/QM Rule. However,
to prevail on that argument, it must be proven that based on the information available to the
creditor at the time the loan was made, the consumer did not have enough income or assets
(other than the dwelling and any attached real property securing the loan) left to meet living
expenses after paying the loan, any simultaneous loan of which the creditor was aware,
mortgage-related expenses, alimony, child support, and other debts. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(1)(ii);
comment 43(e)(1)(ii)-1.



29   SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                         v3.1
          4.1.3 Higher-priced loans
A General QM or Temporary GSE QM is a higher-priced loan if:

         It is a first-lien mortgage for which, at the time the interest rate on the loan was set, the
          APR was 1.5 percentage points or more over the APOR for a comparable transaction.

         It is a subordinate-lien mortgage with an APR that, when the interest rate was set,
          exceeded the APOR for a comparable transaction by 3.5 percentage points or more.

12 CFR 1026.43(b)(4).

For example, if the APOR for a comparable transaction is 5 percent at the time when the interest
rate on a mortgage is set, then a first-lien mortgage is higher-priced if it has an APR of 6.5
percent or more.

A Small Creditor QM or Balloon-Payment QM is a higher-priced loan if it has an APR that, when
the interest rate was set, exceeded the APOR for a
comparable transaction by 3.5 percentage points or                    This special definition of higher-
                                                                      priced loan for Small Creditor
more, for both first-lien and subordinate-lien
                                                                      and Balloon-Payment QMs only
mortgages. 12 CFR 1026.43(b)(4). For example, if the
                                                                      determines whether a loan has a
APOR for a comparable transaction is 5 percent at the
                                                                      safe harbor or rebuttable
time when the interest rate on a mortgage is set, a                   presumption of compliance with
mortgage that is a Small Creditor Qualified Mortgage is               the ATR requirements. It does
higher-priced if it has an APR of 8.5 percent or more,                not affect whether a loan is a
regardless of whether it is first- or subordinate-lien                “higher-priced mortgage loan”
loan.                                                                 (HPML) under other Bureau
                                                                      rules and does not exempt a loan
Rate-spread calculators and other guidance are                        from other requirements for
available online at http://www.ffiec.gov/ratespread/.                 HPMLs.
They may be used to calculate the difference between a
loan’s APR and the APOR for a comparable loan.




30       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
4.2 Requirements that apply to all QMs
under the ATR/QM Rule
The ATR/QM Rule has some requirements that are common across all types of QMs defined in
the Rule. These requirements include:

         A prohibition on negative amortization or interest-only payments;

         A prohibition on loan terms in excess of 30 years; and

         Limits on points and fees. Additional information on the limits on points and fees is
          available in Section 4.7.

12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2) and (5)-(7).




4.3 General QMs
The ATR/QM Rule has permitted creditors to originate General QMs since January 1, 2014.
However, on December 10, 2020, the Bureau issued a final rule, the General QM Final Rule,
which amended the General QM definition. The General QM Final Rule is effective on March 1,
2021 but has a mandatory compliance date of October 1, 2022. Thus, a creditor must satisfy
different criteria to originate a General QM depending on when a creditor receives an
application for a covered mortgage loan. If a creditor received an application before March 1,
2021 (i.e., the effective date of the General QM Final Rule), the creditor had to satisfy the criteria
discussed in Section 4.3.1 (the DTI-based General QM definition) in order to originate a General
QM. If a creditor receives an application between March 1, 2021 and September 30, 2022, the
creditor may satisfy either the criteria discussed in Section 4.3.1 (the DTI-based General QM
definition) or the criteria discussed in Section 4.3.2 (the price-based General QM definition) to
originate a General QM. If a creditor receives an application on or after October 1, 2022 (i.e.,
the mandatory compliance date for the General QM Final Rule), the creditor must satisfy the
criteria in Section 4.3.2 (the price-based General QM definition) in order to originate a General
QM.




31       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                       v3.1
          4.3.1 DTI-based General QM definition
As noted above, if a creditor receives an application for a covered mortgage loan before March 1,
2021, the creditor must satisfy the criteria discussed in this Section 4.3.1 in order to originate a
General QM. These criteria existed prior to the issuance of the General QM Final Rule on
December 10, 2020 and remain available until
September 30, 2022. If a creditor receives an                   Although consideration and
application between March 1, 2021 and September                 verification of a consumer’s
30, 2022, the creditor may satisfy either the criteria          credit history is not specifically
                                                                incorporated into the General
discussed in this Section 4.3.1 or the criteria
                                                                QM definition, a creditor must
discussed in Section 4.3.2. The criteria discussed in
                                                                verify a consumer’s debt
this Section 4.3.1 do not apply to applications
                                                                obligations using reasonably
received on or after October 1, 2022. See Section               reliable third-party records,
4.3.2 for the General QM criteria that apply to                 which may include use of a
applications received on or after October 1, 2022. See          credit report or records that
also comment 43-2.                                              evidence nontraditional credit
                                                                references.
In order for a loan to be a General QM pursuant to
the definition that existed prior to the effective date of      When appendix Q does not
the General QM Final Rule, the creditor must:                   resolve how a specific type of
                                                                debt or income should be
         Underwrite based on a fully amortizing                treated, creditors may rely on
          schedule using the maximum rate permitted             guidelines of the GSEs or certain
          during the first five years after the date of the     federal agencies to resolve the
                                                                issue. However, a creditor may
          first periodic payment;
                                                                not rely on GSE or agency
         Consider and verify the consumer’s income or          guidelines where such guidelines
          assets, current debt obligations, alimony and         are in conflict with appendix Q
          child-support obligations; and                        standards.

         Determine that the consumer’s total monthly debt-to-income ratio is no more than 43
          percent, using the definitions and other requirements provided in appendix Q to
          Regulation Z.

Additionally, General QMs must have regular periodic payments that are substantially equal
(except for the effect that any interest rate change after consummation has on the payment in
the case of an adjustable-rate or step-rate mortgage) and may not have negative-amortization,



32       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                       v3.1
interest-only features, balloon-payment features, terms that exceed 30 years, or points and fees
that exceed the specified limits as discussed in Section 4.7.


          4.3.2               Price-based General QM definition
As noted above, the General QM Final Rule issued on December 10, 2020 is effective for
applications received on or after March 1, 2021. For applications received on or after March 1,
2021, a creditor may use the revised General QM definition discussed in this Section 4.3.2 or the
General QM definition discussed in Section 4.3.1 above to determine if a loan is a General QM.
The mandatory compliance date for the General QM Final Rule is October 1, 2022. Thus, for
applications received on or after October 1, 2022, creditors must use the criteria set forth in the
revised definition and discussed in this Section 4.3.2 to determine if a loan is a General QM. See
comment 43-2.

In order for a loan to be a General QM pursuant to the revised definition that is effective on
March 1, 2021, the loan must meet a priced-based limit and certain underwriting criteria.
Pursuant to the revised definition, a loan is a General QM only if the APR for the loan exceeds
the APOR for a comparable transaction by less than the applicable threshold as of the date the
interest rate is set. The thresholds for General QM status are:

         For a first-lien loan with a loan amount           Manufactured home means any
          greater than or equal to $110,260, 2.25            residential structure as defined under
          percentage points;                                 HUD regulations establishing
         For a first-lien loan with a loan amount           manufactured home construction and
          greater than or equal to $66,156 but less          safety standards. 24 CFR 3280.2.
          than $110,260, 3.5 percentage points;              Modular or other factory-built homes
         For a first-lien loan with a loan amount less      that do not meet the HUD code
          than $66,156, 6.5 percentage points;               standards are not manufactured homes
         For a first-lien loan secured by a                 for this purpose.
          manufactured home 2 with a loan amount
          less than $110,260, 6.5 percentage points;
         For a subordinate-lien loan with a loan amount greater than or equal to $66,156, 3.5
          percentage points; and


2 This threshold applies to first-lien loans of less than $110,260 (indexed for inflation) that are secured by a

 manufactured home and land, or by a manufactured home only. For a first-lien loan with a loan amount equal to or
 greater than $110,260 (indexed for inflation) that is secured by a manufactured home or a manufactured home and
 land, the threshold is 2.25 percentage points.


33       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                                          v3.1
         For a subordinate-lien loan with a loan amount less than $66,156, 6.5 percentage points.

12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2)(vi).

If a loan’s interest rate may or will change in the first five years after the date on which the first
regular periodic payment will be due, the creditor must treat the highest interest rate that may
apply during that five year period as the loan’s interest rate for the entire loan term when
determining the APR for purposes of these thresholds. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2)(vi).

In order for a loan to be a General QM pursuant to the revised definition that is effective on
March 1, 2021, the creditor also must satisfy both of the following with regard to the loan:

         Consider the consumer’s current or reasonably expected income or assets (other than
          the value of the dwelling that secures the loan and any real property attached to that
          dwelling), debt obligations, alimony, child support, and monthly DTI ratio or residual
          income. To meet this requirement for General QM status, the creditor must:

             Take into account current or reasonably           A creditor may only consider amounts
              expected income or assets (other than the         that it has verified in accordance with the
              value of the dwelling that secures the            verification requirements discussed in
              loan and any real property attached to            this Section 4.3.2.
              that dwelling), debt obligations, alimony,
              child support, and monthly DTI ratio or residual income in its ATR determination;

             Maintain written policies and procedures for how it takes into account income or
              assets, debt obligations, alimony, child support, and monthly DTI ratio or residual
              income in its ATR determination; and

             Retain documentation showing how it took into account income or assets, debt
              obligations, alimony, child support, and monthly DTI ratio or residual income in its
              ATR, including how it applied its policies and procedures. Examples of such
              documentation may include an underwriter worksheet or a final automated
              underwriting system certification, in combination with the creditor’s applicable
              underwriting standards and any applicable exceptions described in its policies and
              procedures, that shows how these required factors were taken into account in the
              creditor’s ATR determination.

         Verify the consumer’s current or reasonably expected income or assets (other than the
          value of the dwelling that secures the loan and any real property attached to that



34       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
          dwelling) as well as the consumer’s debt obligations, alimony, and child support. A
          creditor must verify such amounts using reasonably reliable third-party records and
          reasonable methods and criteria. Creditors can meet the Rule’s verification requirement
          either by satisfying this general standard or by complying with the verification standards
          in one or more 3 specified manuals. If the creditor meets the standards for verifying
          current or reasonably expected income or assets (other than the value of the dwelling
          securing the transaction) in one or more of the specified manuals, the creditor has a safe
          harbor for compliance with the General QM verification requirement. These standards
          include relevant provisions in specified versions of the Fannie Mae Single Family Selling
          Guide, the Freddie Mac Single-Family Seller/Servicer Guide, the FHA’s Single Family
          Housing Policy Handbook, the VA’s Lenders Handbook, and the USDA’s Field Office
          Handbook for the Direct Single Family Housing Program and Handbook for the Single
          Family Guaranteed Loan Program. The General QM definition sets forth the specific
          provisions and versions of these manuals that creditors must use to obtain a safe harbor,
          and notes a creditor also obtains a safe harbor if it complies with revised versions of the
          manuals, provided that the two versions are substantially similar. To receive the
          verification safe harbor, the creditor need only comply with requirements in the manuals
          to verify income, assets, debt obligations, alimony and child support using specified
          reasonably reliable third-party records or to include or exclude particular inflows,
          property, and obligations as income, assets, debt obligations, alimony, and child support.

12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2)(iv) and (v).

Additionally, General QMs must have regular periodic payments that are substantially equal
(except for the effect that any interest rate change after consummation has on the payment in
the case of an adjustable-rate or step-rate mortgage) and may not have negative-amortization,
interest-only features, balloon-payment features, terms that exceed 30 years, or points and fees
that exceed the specified limits as discussed in Section 4.7. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2)(i) through
(iii).




3 Accordingly, a creditor may, but need not, satisfy the verify requirements by complying with the verification

  standards from more than one manual (in other words, by “mixing and matching” verification standards).


35       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                                       v3.1
4.4 Seasoned QMs
The Seasoned QM category is available for loans for which a creditor receives an application on
or after March 1, 2021.

Seasoned QMs must have regular, substantially equal periodic payments that are fully
amortizing payments. A Seasoned QM may not have negative-amortization, interest-only
payments, balloon-payment features, terms that exceed 30 years, or points and fees that exceed
the specified limits as discussed in Section 4.7. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(7)(i)(A) and (B).

Additionally, all of the following must be satisfied in order for a loan to be eligible to become a
Seasoned QM:

         The loan must be a fixed-rate loan and secured by a first lien. If a loan is a subordinate-
          lien loan, an adjustable-rate loan, or a step-rate loan, the loan is not eligible to be a
          Seasoned QM.

         The loan must not be a high-cost mortgage as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR
          1026.32(a).

         The creditor must satisfy the consider
          and verify requirements under the                    A periodic payment is 30 days delinquent
          revised definition for General QMs.                  when it is not paid before the due date of the
                                                               following scheduled periodic payment.
          These requirements are discussed in
          Section 4.3.2.                                       A periodic payment is 60 days delinquent if
                                                               the consumer is more than 30 days
         The loan must have no more than two
                                                               delinquent on the first of two sequential
          delinquencies of 30 or more days and no
                                                               scheduled periodic payments and does not
          delinquencies of 60 or more days at the
                                                               make both sequential scheduled periodic
          end of the seasoning period. In                      payments before the due date of the next
          determining whether a loan is a Seasoned             scheduled periodic payment after the two
          QM, delinquency generally means the                  sequential scheduled periodic payments.
          failure to make a periodic payment
          sufficient to cover principal, interest, and escrow (if applicable) for a given billing cycle
          by the date the periodic payment is due under the terms of the legal obligation. For more
          information about this definition of delinquency, see 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(7)(iv)(A).

12 CFR 1026.43(e)(7)(i) and (ii).


36       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                            v3.1
Generally, the seasoning period is the 36-month period that begins on the date on which the
first periodic payment is due after consummation. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(7)(iv)(C). The end of the
seasoning period occurs later in two situations:

             First, if there is a delinquency of 30 days or more at the end of the 36th month of the
              seasoning period, the seasoning period is extended until there is no delinquency.

             Second, time spent in a temporary payment accommodation extended in connection
              with a disaster or pandemic-related national emergency does not count towards the
              seasoning period, provided that during or at the end of the temporary payment
              accommodation there is a qualifying change or the consumer cures the loan’s
              delinquency under its original terms. For the definitions of qualifying change and
              temporary payment accommodation extended in connection with a disaster or
              pandemic-related national emergency, see 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(7)(iv)(B) and (D).

12 CFR 1026.43(e)(7)(iv)(C).

To become a Seasoned QM, the loan must also satisfy a portfolio requirement. 12 CFR
1026.43(e)(7)(iii). Generally, the loan must not be subject, at consummation, to a commitment
to be acquired by another person, and the loan must not be sold, assigned, or otherwise
transferred prior to the end of the seasoning period, except that:

         The loan may be transferred once before the end of the seasoning period provided that
          the loan is not securitized as part of the transfer or at any other time before the end of
          the seasoning period;

         The loan may be transferred pursuant to a supervisory action or agreement; and

         The loan may be transferred as part of a merger or acquisition of or by the creditor.

12 CFR 1026.43(e)(7)(iii).




37       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                         v3.1
4.5 Temporary QM Definitions
          4.5.1 Temporary GSE QM Definition
The ATR/QM Rule extends QM status to certain loans that are originated during a transitional
period if the loans are eligible for purchase or guarantee by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac (the
GSEs) while are under federal conservatorship or receivership and if the loans meet certain
other requirements. This Temporary GSE QM category expires on the date that the GSEs exit
federal conservatorship or receivership or on October 1, 2022, whichever occurs first. Loans that
receive QM status under the Temporary GSE QM category will retain QM status after the
Temporary GSE QM category expires.

While the ATR/QM Rule sets October 1, 2022 as the expiration date of the Temprary GSE QM
definition, the availability of the Temporary GSE QM loan definition may be affected by policies
or agreements created by parties other than the Bureau. For example, the Preferred Stock
Purchase Agreements include restrictions on GSEs purchases that rely on the Temporary QM
definition after July 1, 2021. 4

Temporary GSE QMs must have regular periodic payments that are substantially equal (except
for the effect that any interest rate change after consummation has on the payment in the case of
an adjustable-rate or step-rate mortgage) and may not have negative-amortization, interest-only
features, balloon-payment features, terms that exceed 30 years, or points and fees that exceed
the specified limits as discussed in Section 4.7. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(4). Additionally, a loan must
be eligible for purchase or guarantee by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac while operating under
federal conservatorship. However, the creditor does not have to satisfy GSE standards that are
wholly unrelated to the credit risk or underwriting of the loan or any standards that apply after
the consummation of the loan. Eligibility for purchase or guarantee by a GSE can be established
based on any of the following methods:

         Valid recommendation from a GSE Automated Underwriting System (AUS) or an AUS
          that relies on an agency underwriting tool.




4 See Section 5.14(c) of the PSPAs (Jan. 14, 2021), https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/Executed-Letter-

 Agreement-for-Fannie-Mae.pdf.


38       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                                   v3.1
         GSE guidelines contained in official manuals.

         Written agreements between a GSE and the creditor (or a direct sponsor or aggregator of
          the creditor).

         Individual loan waivers from a GSE.


          4.5.2 QMs eligible to be purchased, insured or
          guaranteed by specified government agencies
Initially, the ATR/QM Rule had categories of QMs for loans that met certain criteria and were
eligible to be purchased, insured, or guaranteed by specified government agencies. Under these
QM categories, a loan was generally considered a QM if it was eligible to be insured or
guaranteed under certain programs administered by the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD), the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), or the Department of
Agriculture (USDA). The Rule provided that these QM categories would expire on the effective
date of a rule issued by each respective agency to define QMs for its loan programs. All of the
specified government agencies have since issued their own QM rules, and those rules have taken
effect. Thus, these QM categories have expired. However, a loan that is defined as QM under
any of these agencies’ rules is a QM for purposes of the ATR/QM Rule. See comment 43(e)(4)-1.




4.6 QMs that only certain creditors are
eligible to originate
In addition to the categories of QMs that all creditors are eligible to originate, there are two
additional categories of QMs in the ATR/QM Rule that only small creditors are eligible to
originate. See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(5) and (f).

A creditor can make these categories of QMs only if it meets both of the following requirements:

         The creditor and its affiliates that regularly extended covered loans (i.e., closed-end
          residential mortgage loans that are subject to the ATR requirements) in the last calendar
          year had assets below $2 billion (to be adjusted annually for inflation by the Bureau) at
          the end of the last calendar year; and




39       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                        v3.1
         The creditor and all its affiliates together originated no more than 2,000 first-lien
          covered loans in the preceding calendar year. A creditor is not required to count loans
          that the creditor originated and kept in portfolio or loans that an affiliate originated and
          kept in its portfolio.

12 CFR 1026.43(e)(5)(i)(D) and (f)(1)(vi). See also 12 CFR 1026.35(b)(2)(iii)(B) and (C).

The ATR/QM Rule has a grace period for creditors that no longer meet the small creditor
origination limit or asset-size limit. If a creditor exceeded the asset-size or origination limit
during the immediately preceding calendar year but met the limit in the calendar year before the
immediately preceding year, the creditor can operate as a small creditor for purposes of
originating QMs for applications received before April 1 of the current calendar year.

An affiliate is any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the
creditor. This generally means that a creditor’s affiliates are its parent company, its
subsidiaries, and its sister companies. For example, if a creditor is a bank owned by a bank
holding company that also owns another bank, both the bank holding company and the other
bank are the creditor’s affiliates.

To determine if it meets the asset-size limit, a creditor counts its assets and the assets of its
affiliates that, during the relevant period, regularly extended first-lien, closed-end mortgage
loans subject to the ATR/QM Rule’s ATR requirements.

To determine if it meets the originations limit, a creditor counts all first-lien, closed-end covered
loans (i.e., mortgage loans subject to the ATR/QM Rule’s ATR requirements) originated by the
creditor or one of its affiliates. A creditor does not count subordinate-lien mortgage loans or
mortgage loans that are not subject to the ATR/QM Rule, such as HELOCs, time-share plans,
reverse mortgages, or temporary or bridge loans with terms of 12 months or less.


          4.6.1 Small Creditor QMs
Small Creditor QMs may not have negative-amortization, interest-only features, balloon-
payment features, or terms that exceed 30 years. They may not have points and fees that exceed
the specified QM limits discussed in Section 4.7. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(5)(i)(A).

In addition, in order for a loan to be a Small Creditor QM:




40       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                        v3.1
         The creditor must underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing schedule using the
          maximum rate permitted during the first five years after the date of the first periodic
          payment.

         The loan must not be subject to a commitment made at or prior to consummation of a
          loan to sell the loan after consummation, other than to a creditor that itself is eligible to
          make Small Creditor QMs.

         The creditor must consider and verify the consumer’s income or assets, and debts,
          alimony, and child support.

         The creditor must consider the consumer’s DTI ratio or residual income, although the
          Small Creditor QM definition sets no specific threshold for DTI ratio or residual income.

12 CFR 1026.43(e)(5)(i).

A loan generally loses its Small Creditor QM status if the small creditor sells or otherwise
transfers the loan less than three years after the loan’s consummation. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(5)(ii).
However, a loan keeps its Small Creditor QM status if it meets one of these criteria:

         It is sold or otherwise transferred more than three years after consummation.

         It is sold or otherwise transferred to another small creditor, at any time.

         It is sold or otherwise transferred pursuant to a supervisory action or agreement, at any
          time.

         It is sold or otherwise transferred as part of a merger or acquisition of or by the creditor,
          at any time.

12 CFR 1026.43(e)(5)(ii).


          4.6.2 Balloon-Payment QMs
Small creditors that operate in a rural or underserved area are eligible to make Balloon-Payment
QMs. 12 CFR 1026.43(f)(1)(vi).

A creditor is eligible to originate Balloon-Payment QMs if the creditor is a small creditor (i.e.,
satisfies the asset-size and originations limits), and operated in a rural or underserved area in
the preceding calendar year. 12 CFR 1026.43(f)(1)(vi).


41       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
If a creditor is not a small creditor or did not operate in a rural or underserved area in the
preceding calendar year, the creditor may be able to originate Balloon-Payment QMs during a
grace period. A small creditor that did not operate in a rural or underserved area in the
preceding calendar year can originate Balloon-Payment QMs for transactions with applications
received prior to April 1 of the current calendar year if the small creditor operated in a rural or
underserved area in the calendar year before the preceding calendar year. Similarly, a creditor
that operated in a rural or underserved area in the preceding calendar year but that did not
satisfy the small creditor origination limit or asset-size limit in the preceding calendar year can
originate Balloon-Payment QMs for transactions with applications received before April 1 of the
current calendar year if the creditor met the limit in the calendar year before the preceding
calendar year.

Balloon-Payment QMs must not have negative-amortization or interest-only features and must
comply with the points-and-fees limits discussed in Section 4.7. 12 CFR 1026.43(f)(1)(i).

In addition, a loan must satisfy all of the following criteria to be a Balloon-Payment QM:

         The loan must have a fixed interest rate and periodic payments (other than the balloon
          payment) that would fully amortize the loan over 30 years or less.

         The loan must have a term of five years or longer.

         The loan must not be subject to a commitment made at or prior to consummation of a
          loan to sell the loan after consummation, other than to a creditor that itself is eligible to
          make Balloon-Payment QMs.

         The creditor must determine that the consumer will be able to make the scheduled
          periodic payments (including mortgage-related obligations) other than the balloon
          payment. Unlike the calculation of balloon loan monthly payments for determining
          ATR, the Balloon-Payment QM calculation excludes the balloon payment even if the loan
          is a higher-priced loan.

         The creditor must consider and verify the consumer’s income or assets, and debts,
          alimony, and child support.

         The creditor must consider the consumer’s DTI ratio or residual income, although the
          Balloon-Payment QM definition sets no specific threshold for the DTI ratio or residual
          income.


42       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
12 CFR 1026.43(f)(1)(ii) through (v).

A loan generally loses its Balloon-Payment QM status if the creditor sells or otherwise transfers
the loan less than three years after the loan’s consummation. 12 CFR 1026.43(f)(2). However, a
loan keeps its Balloon-Payment QM status if it meets one of these criteria:

         It is sold or otherwise transferred more than three years after consummation.

         It is sold or otherwise transferred to another small creditor operating in rural or
          underserved areas at any time.

         It is sold or otherwise transferred pursuant to a supervisory action or agreement at any
          time.

         It is sold or otherwise transferred as part of a merger or acquisition of or by the creditor
          at any time.

12 CFR 1026.43(f)(2).




4.7 Points-and-fees limits
For a loan to be a QM pursuant to the ATR/QM Rule, the points and fees may not exceed the
points-and-fees limits. The points-and-fees limits are higher for smaller loans. Initially, the
points-and-fees limits were:

         3 percent of the total loan amount for a loan greater than or equal to $100,000;

         $3,000 for a loan greater than or equal to $60,000 but less than $100,000;

         5 percent of the total loan amount for a loan greater than or equal to $20,000 but less
          than $60,000;

         $1,000 for a loan greater than or equal to $12,500 but less than $20,000; and

         8 percent of the total loan amount for a loan less than $12,500.

12 CFR 1026.43(e)(3)(i).




43       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                         v3.1
The dollar amounts listed above are adjusted annually for inflation and published each year in
the commentary to Regulation Z. 5 See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(3)(ii) and accompanying
commentary.

To determine whether a loan is within the QM points-and-fees limits, one may
follow these steps:

         First, determine which of the limits applies to the loan amount on the face of the note.

         Second, calculate the maximum points and fees for that loan amount:

             For a loan amount that has a fixed-dollar limit (for example, $3,000 for loan
              amounts of $60,000 but less than $100,000), that fixed-dollar cap is the maximum
              allowable points and fees.

             For a loan amount that has a percentage limit (for example, 5 percent of the total
              loan amount for loan amounts greater than or equal to $20,000 but less than
              $60,000) determine the “total loan amount” for your transaction. The total loan
              amount equals the “amount financed” minus any points and fees that are rolled into
              the loan amount. Multiply the total loan amount by the percentage cap to determine
              the maximum allowable points and fees.

         Finally, calculate the total points and fees for the transaction. If the total points and fees
          for the transaction exceed the maximum allowable points and fees, then the loan is not a
          QM.

For certain transactions consummated on or before January 10, 2021, if the creditor or an
assignee determines after consummation that the total points and fees exceed the applicable
points and fees limit, the ATR/QM Rule allows the creditor or assignee to take certain steps
within 210 days after consummation to cure the overage and maintain QM status. In order to
cure an overage and maintain QM status, the creditor or assignee must maintain and follow



5 For 2021, the points-and-fees limits are: (1) for a loan amount greater than or equal to $110,260: 3 percent of the

 total loan amount; (2) for a loan amount greater than or equal to $66,156 but less than $110,260: $3,308; (3) for a
 loan amount greater than or equal to $22,052 but less than $66,156: 5 percent of the total loan amount; (4) for a
 loan amount greater than or equal to $13,783 but less than $22,052: $1,103; and (5) for a loan amount less than
 $13,783: 8 percent of the total loan amount.




44       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                                       v3.1
policies and procedures for post-consummation review of points and fees and for making
payments to cure overages pursuant to the ATR/QM Rule. For more information, see 12 CFR
1026.43(e)(3)(iii) and (iv) and accompanying commentary.


          4.7.1 Points-and-fees calculation
To calculate points and fees for the QM points-and-fees limits, use the same approach that is
used for calculating points and fees for closed-end loans under the Home Ownership and Equity
Protection Act (HOEPA) thresholds in the Bureau’s High-Cost Mortgage and Homeownership
Counseling Amendments to the Truth in Lending Act (Regulation Z) and Homeownership
Counseling Amendments to the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (Regulation X)
rulemakings. 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(3)(i). Those rules are available online at
www.consumerfinance.gov/regulations/.

Unless specified otherwise, include amounts that are known at or before consummation, even if
the consumer pays them after consummation by rolling them into the loan amount.

In addition, unless specified otherwise, closing costs that a creditor pays and recoups from the
consumer over time through the interest rate are not counted in points and fees.

To calculate points and fees, add together the amounts paid in connection with the transaction
for the categories of charges listed below:


1. FINANCE CHARGE
In general, include all items included in the finance charge. 12 CFR 1026.4(a) and (b).
However, the following types and amounts of charges may be excluded, even if they normally
would be included in the finance charge:

         Interest or the time-price differential.

         Mortgage insurance premiums (MIPs).

         Federal or state government-sponsored MIPs. For example, exclude up-front and
          annual FHA premiums, VA funding fees, and USDA guarantee fees.

         Private mortgage insurance (PMI) premiums. Exclude monthly or annual PMI
          premiums. Up-front PMI premiums may be excluded if the premium is refundable on a
          prorated basis and a refund is automatically issued upon loan satisfaction. However,


45       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                    v3.1
          even if the premium is excludable, one must include any portion that exceeds the up-
          front MIP for FHA loans. Those amounts are published in HUD Mortgagee Letters,
          which you can access on HUD’s website at
          portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/administration/hudclips/letters
          /mortgagee/.

         Certain charges paid by a third party. A charge paid by a third party may be included in
          points and fees but is not included in points and fees under 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(i) if the
          exclusions to points and fees in 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(i)(A) through (F) apply. For
          example, seller’s points are not included in points and fees under 12 CFR
          1026.32(b)(1)(i) as they are not included in the finance charge. But they still may be
          included in points and fees under 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(ii) through (vi)—for example, if
          they cover loan originator compensation, credit life insurance premiums, or a
          prepayment penalty.

         Bona fide third-party charges not retained by the creditor, loan originator, or an affiliate
          of either. 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(i)(D). In general, bona fide third-party charges may be
          excluded even if they would be included in the finance charge. For example, a bona fide
          charge imposed by a third-party settlement agent (for example, an attorney) may be
          excluded so long as neither the creditor nor the loan originator (or their affiliates) retains
          a portion of the charge. However, third-party charges that are specifically required to be
          included under other provisions of the points-and-fees calculation must be included (for
          example, certain PMI premiums, certain real estate-related charges, and premiums for
          certain credit insurance and debt cancellation or suspension coverage). Note that up-
          front fees a creditor charges consumers to recover the costs of loan-level price
          adjustments imposed by secondary market purchasers of loans, including the GSEs, are
          not considered bona fide third-party charges and must be included in points and fees.

         Bona fide discount points. 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(i)(E), 32(b)(1)(i)(F), and 32(b)(3).
          Exclude up to 2 bona fide discount points if the interest rate before the discount does
          not exceed the APOR for a comparable transaction by more than 1 percentage point; or
          exclude up to 1 bona fide discount point if the interest rate before the discount does not
          exceed the APOR for a comparable transaction by more than 2 percentage points.

A discount point is “bona fide” if it reduces the consumer’s interest rate by an amount that
reflects established industry practices, such as secondary mortgage market norms. An example
is the pricing in the to-be-announced market for mortgage-backed securities.


46       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                          v3.1
2. LOAN ORIGINATOR COMPENSATION
Include compensation paid directly or indirectly by a consumer or creditor to a loan originator
other than compensation paid by a mortgage broker, creditor, or retailer of manufactured
homes to an employee. 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(ii).
                                                               In the context of determining what
Include compensation that is attributable to the
                                                               loan originator compensation must be
transaction, to the extent that such compensation is           included in points and fees, the term
known as of the date the interest rate for the                 “mortgage broker” refers to both
transaction is set. 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(ii). In               brokerage firms and individual
general, include the following:                                brokers. Compensation paid by a
                                                               mortgage broker to an employee is not
         Compensation paid directly by a consumer             included in points and fees.
          to a mortgage broker: Include the amount
          the consumer pays directly to the mortgage broker. If this payment is already included
          in points and fees because it is included in the finance charge under 12 CFR
          1026.32(b)(1)(i), it does not have to be included again as loan originator compensation
          under 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(ii).

         Compensation paid by a creditor to a mortgage broker: Include the amount the creditor
          pays to the broker for the transaction. Include this amount even if the creditor included
          origination or other charges paid by the consumer to the creditor as points and fees
          under 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(i) as a finance charge or if the creditor does not receive an
          up-front payment from the consumer to cover the broker’s fee but rather recoups the fee
          from the consumer through the interest rate over time.

         Compensation paid by a consumer or creditor to a manufactured home retailer: Include
          the amount paid by a consumer or creditor to a manufactured home retailer that
          qualifies as a loan originator under 12 CFR 1026.36(a)(1) for loan origination activities.
          Compensation paid by the manufactured home retailer to its employees does not have to
          be included. 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(ii)(D); comment 32(b)(1)(ii)-5.

         Compensation included in the sales price of a manufactured home: Include loan
          originator compensation that the creditor has knowledge is included in the sales price of
          a manufactured home. The creditor is not required to investigate the sales price of a
          manufactured home to determine if the sales price includes loan originator
          compensation. Comment 32(b)(1)(ii)-5.




47       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                       v3.1
3. REAL ESTATE-RELATED FEES
Include real estate-related fees unless all of the following conditions are satisfied:

         The charge is reasonable;

         The creditor receives no direct or indirect compensation in connection with the charge;
          and

         The charge is not paid to an affiliate of the creditor.

If one or more of those three conditions is not satisfied, include the charge in points and fees
even if it would be excluded from the finance charge. 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(iii).

Real estate-related charges include:

         Fees for title examination, abstract of title, title insurance, property survey, and similar
          purposes;

         Fees for preparing loan-related documents, such as deeds, mortgages, and reconveyance
          or settlement documents;

         Notary and credit-report fees;

         Property appraisal fees or inspection fees to assess the value or condition of the property
          if the service is performed prior to consummation, including fees related to pest-
          infestation or flood-hazard determinations; and

         Amounts paid into escrow or trustee accounts that are not otherwise included in the
          finance charge (except amounts held for future payment of taxes).


4. PREMIUMS FOR CREDIT INSURANCE; CREDIT PROPERTY INSURANCE; OTHER LIFE,
ACCIDENT, HEALTH OR LOSS-OF-INCOME INSURANCE WHERE THE CREDITOR IS
BENEFICIARY; OR DEBT CANCELLATION OR SUSPENSION COVERAGE PAYMENTS

Include premiums for these types of insurance that are payable at or before consummation even
if such premiums are rolled into the loan amount, if permitted by law. 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(iv).

These charges may be excluded if they are paid after consummation (e.g., monthly premiums).

Note that credit property insurance means insurance that protects the creditor’s interest in the
property. It does not include homeowner’s insurance that protects the consumer.


48       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                         v3.1
Premiums for life, accident, health, or loss-of-income insurance may be excluded if the
consumer (or another person designated by the consumer) is the sole beneficiary of the
insurance.


5. MAXIMUM PREPAYMENT PENALTY
Include the maximum prepayment penalty that a consumer could be charged for prepaying the
loan. 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(v).


6. PREPAYMENT PENALTY PAID IN A REFINANCE
If the creditor is refinancing a loan that the creditor or its affiliate currently holds or is currently
servicing, then include any penalties charged to the consumers for prepaying their previous
loan(s). 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(vi).


7. CHARGES PAID BY THIRD PARTIES
Include charges paid by third parties that fall within the definition of points and fees in 12 CFR
1026.32(b)(1)(i) through (vi) (discussed above), including charges included in the finance
charge. Comment 32(b)(1)-2. Charges paid by third parties that fall within the exclusions to
points and fees in 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(i)(A) through (F) do not have to be included in points
and fees. Seller’s points are excluded from the finance charge (see 12 CFR 1026.4(c)(5)) and
therefore can be excluded from points and fees, but charges paid by the seller should be included
if they are for items listed as points and fees in 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(ii) through (vi).


8. CREDITOR-PAID CHARGES
Charges paid by the creditor, other than loan originator compensation paid by the creditor that
is required to be included in points and fees under 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1)(ii), can be excluded
from points and fees. Comment 32(b)(1)-2.




49    SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                             v3.1
5. Refinancing from Non-
   Standard to Standard Loans
The ATR/QM Rule gives creditors the option to refinance a current mortgage customer from a
non-standard mortgage loan (which includes various types of mortgages that can lead to
payment shock and can result in default) into a standard mortgage loan without having to meet
the Rule’s ATR requirements. 12 CFR 1026.43(d).

This option applies only to mortgage loans a creditor holds or services. Subservicers and third
parties cannot use it. 12 CFR 1026.43(d)(2). A creditor can use this option only when:

         The payments under the refinance will not cause the consumer’s principal balance to
          increase.

         The consumer uses the proceeds to pay off the original mortgage loan and for closing or
          settlement charges required to be disclosed under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures
          Act, 12 U.S.C. 2601 et seq. The consumer takes out no cash.

         The consumer’s monthly payment will materially decrease (i.e., at least 10 percent).

         The consumer has only one 30-day late payment in the past 12 months and no late
          payments within six months.

         The consumer’s written application for the standard mortgage is received no later than
          two months after the non-standard mortgage has recast.

         The creditor has considered whether the standard mortgage likely will prevent the
          consumer from defaulting on the non-standard mortgage once the loan is recast.

         If the non-standard mortgage was consummated on or after January 10, 2014, the non-
          standard mortgage was made in accordance with the Rule’s ATR requirements or QM
          provisions, as applicable.

12 CFR 1026.43(d)(2) and (3)(ii).




50       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                     v3.1
The new loan has to meet all of the following:

         The loan cannot have deferred                    The ATR/QM Rule does not apply when
          principal, negative amortization, or             a creditor modifies an existing loan
                                                           without refinancing it. A creditor can
          balloon payments.
                                                           provide a loan modification to a
         Points and fees must fall within the             defaulted (or non-defaulted) consumer
          thresholds for QMs.                              without complying with the ATR/QM
                                                           Rule’s ATR requirements. See 12 CFR
         The loan term cannot exceed 40 years.            1026.20 and related commentary.

         The interest rate must be fixed for at
          least the first five years of the loan.

12 CFR 1026.43(d)(1)(ii).

To calculate payments when comparing non-standard loans to standard loans, a creditor first
calculates the payment the consumer will have to make if the non-standard loan reaches a recast
point. 12 CFR 1026.43(d)(5). Recast occurs when:

         For an adjustable-rate mortgage, the introductory fixed-rate period ends.

         For an interest-only loan, the interest-only period ends.

         For a negatively amortizing loan, the negatively amortizing payment period ends.

12 CFR 1026.43(b)(11).

A creditor then calculates the payment for the standard loan, using the fully indexed rate and
the monthly payment that will fully amortize the loan based on equal monthly payments. 12
CFR 1026.43(d)(5). Finally, the creditor compares the two payments. A material decrease must
be evaluated in light of the facts and circumstances for the particular loan. A payment reduction
of 10 percent or more meets the “materially lower” standard. 12 CFR 1026.43(d)(2)(ii);
comment 43(d)(2)-1.

Note that the payment calculation for this special refinancing provision is slightly different from
the payment calculation used under the general ATR standard. Under this special provision, a
creditor must base the calculation of the loan amount on the amount of principal that will be
outstanding at the time of recast, taking into account any principal payments that the consumer
will have made by that time. 12 CFR 1026.43(d)(5)(i).


51       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                     v3.1
6. Limits on prepayment
   penalties
In addition to setting forth ATR requirements, the ATR/QM Rule includes limits on the use of
prepayment penalties that apply to almost all closed-end consumer credit transactions secured
by a dwelling including any real property attached to the dwelling. 12 CFR 1026.43(a). The
Rule’s limits on prepayment penalties do not apply to any of the following:

      Open-end credit plans (home equity lines of credit or HELOCs) subject to 12 CFR
     1026.40. However, a loan may not be structured as open-end credit to evade the Rule. 12
     CFR 1026.43(h).

      Timeshare plans.

12 CFR 1026.43(a)(1) and (2).

A prepayment penalty may only be included in a covered mortgage loan if all of the following
conditions are met:

         The loan has an APR that cannot increase after consummation;

         The loan is a General QM, a Temporary QM, a Small Creditor QM, or a Balloon-Payment
          QM;

         The loan is not a higher-priced mortgage loan as defined in 12 CFR 1026.35(a); and

         The prepayment penalty is otherwise permitted by law.

12 CFR 1026.43(g)(1).

Additionally, a prepayment penalty cannot be imposed after the first three years of the loan term
and cannot be greater than:

         Two percent of the outstanding loan balance prepaid during the first two years of the
          loan; or

         One percent of the outstanding loan balance prepaid during the third year of the loan.




52       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                     v3.1
12 CFR 1026.43(g)(2).

If a creditor wants to include a prepayment penalty in a covered transaction, the creditor must
also offer the consumer an alternative transaction that the creditor believes the consumer will
qualify for. The alternative loan cannot have a prepayment penalty. The alternative loan must
be similar to the loan with the prepayment penalty, so the consumer can choose between two
products the consumer will likely qualify for. The alternative loan:

         Must be a fixed-rate or graduated-payment loan and must match the rate type from the
          loan with the prepayment penalty;

         Must have the same term as the mortgage with the prepayment penalty; and

         Cannot have deferred principal, balloon or interest-only payments, or negative
          amortization.

The alternative loans do not have to come from the same secondary market partner, and a
creditor may show the consumer alternative loans from more than one investor or aggregator.
12 CFR 1026.43(g)(3).




53       SMALL ENTITY COMPLIANCE GUIDE: ATR/QM RULE                                    v3.1
