Your home loan toolkit
A step-by-step guide




        Consumer Financial
        Protection Bureau
How can this toolkit help you?
Buying a home is exciting and, let’s face it, complicated. This booklet is a toolkit that can
help you make better choices along your path to owning a home.



After you finish this toolkit:
§ You’ll know the most important steps you need to take to
  get the best mortgage for your situation ..................................................................................Section 1: Page 1

§ You’ll better understand your closing costs and what
  it takes to buy a home ...................................................................................................................Section 2: Page 15

§ You’ll see a few ways to be a successful homeowner..............................................................Section 3: Page 24



How to use the toolkit:
     The location symbol orients you to where you are in the home buying process.
    	

	
  The pencil tells you it is time to get out your pencil or pen to circle, check, or fill
        in numbers.

	
  The magnifying glass highlights tips to help you research further to find important
        information.

	
  The speech bubble shows you conversation starters for talking to others and
        gathering more facts.


About the CFPB
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau implements and enforces federal consumer
financial law and ensures that markets for consumer financial products are transparent,
fair, and competitive.

Have a question about a common consumer financial product or problem? You can
find answers by visiting consumerfinance.gov/askcfpb. Have an issue with a mortgage,
student loan, or other financial product or service? You can submit a complaint to the
CFPB. We’ll forward your complaint to the company and work to get you a response.
Turn to the back cover for details on how to submit a complaint or call us at (855) 411-2372.

This booklet was created to comply with federal law pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 2604, 12 CFR 1024.6, and
12 CFR 1026.19(g).
Choosing the best
mortgage for you
        Y ou’re starting to look for a mortgage or want
         to confirm you made a good decision.
To make the most of your mortgage, you need to decide
what works for you and then shop around to find it. In this
section, you’ll find eight steps to get the job done right.

   IN THIS SECTION
   1. Define what affordable means to you

   2. Understand your credit

   3. Pick the mortgage type that works for you

   4. Choose the right down payment for you

   5. Understand the trade-off between points and interest rate

   6. Shop with several lenders

   7. Choose your mortgage

   8. Avoid pitfalls and handle problems



1. Define what affordable means to you
Only you can decide how much you are comfortable paying for your housing
each month. In most cases, your lender considers only if you are able to repay
your mortgage, not whether you are comfortable repaying your loan. Based
on your overall money picture, think about whether you want to take on the
mortgage payment plus the other costs of homeownership, such as appliances,
repairs, and maintenance.


                                                                                 1
     THE TALK
    Ask your spouse, a loved one, or friend about what affordable means to you:

    “What’s more important—a bigger home with a larger mortgage or more
     financial flexibility?”

    “How much do we want to budget for all the monthly housing costs, including
      repairs, furniture, and new appliances?”

    “What does a mortgage payment mean for our other money goals?”




Be sure to budget for homeowner's insurance
Homeowner’s insurance is designed to protect you from facing large bills to repair or replace
your home if it is damaged. Flooding, fire, drought, and other weather-related risks have
always been a danger to homeowners. The risks are increasing in intensity and frequency,
meaning damage could be more likely, and your insurance costs could go up.

Your mortgage lender generally requires your property to be insured. The mortgage
document you sign might give the mortgage lender the right to buy insurance and charge
you for it. This is called force-placed insurance or lender-placed insurance. A force-placed
insurance policy usually protects only the lender, not you, and the cost to you could be twice
as much as you would regularly pay for insurance.

Some major real estate websites already include flood risk and other risks in their listings.
However, past flood damage can be hidden, costly to repair, and a sign of future risk. Your
state might have disclosure requirements that mean you are entitled to information about
past flooding. Before choosing a home, check the risks. You can look up a community using
the Resilience Analysis and Planning Tool from FEMA (fema.gov/emergency-managers/
practitioners/resilience-analysis-and-planning-tool) and Wildfire Risk to Communities from
USDA (wildfirerisk.org).




2   YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
    
    K NOW YOUR NUMBERS
    Calculate the home payment you can take on by filling in the worksheets below:

Think about what an affordable home loan looks like for you. The three worksheets below
can help. First, estimate your total monthly home payment. Second, look at the percentage
of your income going toward your monthly home payment. Third, look at how much money
you have available to spend on the rest of your monthly expenses.


Step 1. Estimate your total monthly home payment by adding up the items below
Your total monthly home payment is more than just your mortgage. There are more
expenses that go along with owning your home. Start with estimates and adjust as you go.

EMPTY CELL                                                                            MONTHLY ESTIMATE


Principal and interest (P&I)
Your principal and interest payment depends on your home loan amount,
the interest rate, and the number of years it takes to repay the loan. Principal
is the amount you pay each month to reduce the loan balance. Interest is the
                                                                                         
amount you pay each month to borrow money. Many principal and interest
calculators are available online.


Mortgage insurance
A loan with less than a 20% down payment generally means you need to buy               
mortgage insurance.


Property taxes
The local assessor or auditor’s office can help you estimate property taxes
                                                                                       
for your area. If you know the yearly amount, divide by 12 and write in the
monthly amount.


Homeowner’s insurance
You can call insurance agents to get an estimate for homeowner’s insurance             
in your area. Ask if flood insurance is required.


Homeowner’s association or condominium fees, if they apply
Condominiums and other planned communities often require homeowner’s                   
association (HOA) fees.


My estimated total monthly home payment                                                 0



                                                                 SECTION 1: CHOOSING THE BEST MORTGAGE FOR YOU   3
Step 2. Estimate the percentage of your income spent on your monthly home payment

Calculate the percentage of your total monthly income that goes toward your total monthly home payment each
month. A mortgage lending rule of thumb is that your total monthly home payment should be at or below 28%
of your total monthly income before taxes. Lenders might approve you for more or for less depending on your
overall money picture.



      0                                                              100                                     
My estimated total monthly            My total monthly income                               Percentage of my income
home payment (from step 1)            before taxes                                          going toward my monthly
                                                                                            home payment


Step 3. Estimate what is left after subtracting your monthly debts
To determine whether you are comfortable with your total monthly home payment, figure out how much of your
income is left after you pay for your housing plus your other monthly debts.


Total monthly income after taxes                                                        

My estimated total monthly home payment (from step 1)
                                                                                           0

Monthly car payment(s)
                                                                                     

Monthly student loan payment(s)
                                                                                     

Monthly credit card payment(s)
                                                                                     

Other monthly payments, such as child support or alimony
                                                                                     

Total monthly income minus all debt payments
This money must cover your utilities, groceries, childcare, health insurance,
                                                                                           0
repairs, and everything else. If this isn’t enough, consider options such as
buying a less expensive home or paying down debts.



    Step 4. Your choice

    I am comfortable with a total monthly home payment of:                      


4    YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
2. Understand your credit
Your credit, your credit scores, and how wisely you shop for a loan have a significant impact   TIP
on your mortgage interest rate and the fees you pay. To improve your credit and your            Be careful
chances of getting a better mortgage, get current on your payments and stay current. About      making any big
35% of your credit scores is based on whether you pay your bills on time. About 30% of your     purchases on
                                                                                                credit before
credit scores is based on how much debt you owe. That's why you might want to consider          you close on
paying down some of your debts.                                                                 your home. Even
                                                                                                financing a new
                                                                                                refrigerator
 RESEARCH STARTER                                                                              could make it
¨ Check out interest rates and make sure you’re getting the credit you’ve earned.               harder for you to
                                                                                                get a mortgage.
¨ Get your credit report at annualcreditreport.com and check it for errors. If you find
  mistakes, submit a request to each of the credit reporting companies, asking them
  to fix the mistake. For more information about correcting errors on your credit report,       TIP
  visit consumerfinance.gov/askcfpb.
                                                                                                Correcting errors
¨ For more on home loans and credit, visit consumerfinance.gov/buying-a-house.                  on your credit
                                                                                                report could
                                                                                                raise your scores
                                                                                                in 30 days or
                                                                                                less. It’s a good
NOW                                             IN THE FUTURE                                   idea to correct
                                                                                                errors before
§ Applying with a higher credit score means     § If you work on improving your credit and      you apply for a
  you generally are offered lower interest        wait to buy a home, you could save money.     mortgage.
  rates, and you generally have more lenders      Some people who improve their credit save
  to choose among.                                $50 or $100 on a typical monthly mortgage
                                                  payment.
§ Most credit scoring models are built so you
  can shop for a mortgage within a certain      § An average person who adopts healthy
  period—generally between 14 days and            credit habits, such as paying bills on time
  45 days—with little or no impact on your        and paying down credit cards, could see a
  scores. If you shop outside of this period,     credit score improvement in three months
  any change triggered by shopping should         or more.
  be minor—a small price to pay for saving
  money on a mortgage loan.


    YOUR CHOICE
     Check one:

¨ I will go with the credit I have.              OR        ¨ I will wait a few months or more and
                                                           work to improve my credit.




                                                              SECTION 1: CHOOSING THE BEST MORTGAGE FOR YOU     5
3. Pick the mortgage type—fixed or adjustable—that works
  for you
With a fixed-rate mortgage, your principal and interest payment stays the same for as long
as you have your loan.

§ Consider a fixed-rate mortgage if you want a predictable payment.

§ You might be able to refinance later if interest rates fall or your credit or money situation
  improves.

An adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) is a mortgage with an interest rate that changes, or            TIP
“adjusts,” throughout the loan. With an ARM, your payment often starts out lower than             Many borrowers
with a fixed-rate loan, but your rate and payment could change and increase quickly. It is        with ARMs
important to understand the trade-offs if you decide on an ARM.                                   underestimate
                                                                                                  how much their
§ Your payment could increase a lot, often by hundreds of dollars a month.                        interest rates
                                                                                                  can rise.
§ Make sure you are confident you know what your maximum payment could be and that
  you can afford it.
Planning to sell your home within a short period of time? That’s one reason some people
consider an ARM. But you probably shouldn’t count on being able to sell or refinance. Your
money situation could change. Home values could go down or interest rates could go up.

You can get to know more about ARMs in the Consumer Handbook on Adjustable Rate
Mortgages (consumerfinance.gov/learnmore) or by visiting consumerfinance.gov/
buying-a-house.


     Y OUR CHOICE
     Check one:
¨ I prefer a fixed-rate mortgage.                OR        ¨ I prefer an adjustable-rate mortgage.

Check for risky loan features
It is a good idea to make sure you are comfortable with the risks you are taking on when
you buy your home. You can find out if you have certain types of risky loan features from
the Loan Terms section on the first page of your Loan Estimate.

A balloon payment is a large payment you must make, usually at the end of your loan
repayment period. Depending on the terms of your loan, the balloon payment could be as
large as the entire balance on your mortgage.




6   YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
Prepayment means making additional payments, to pay down your mortgage early.                    TIP
This reduces your overall cost of borrowing, and it might allow you to cancel your private       Prepayment
mortgage insurance early and stop paying the premium. Especially if your down payment            is your choice
is less than 20%, it might make sense to make additional payments to pay down your loan          and you can do
                                                                                                 it on your own.
earlier. However, some loans have a prepayment penalty, which means you have to pay              You don’t have
extra if you refinance or pay off your loan early. A prepayment penalty might apply even if      to sign up for a
you sell your home.                                                                              program or pay a
                                                                                                 fee to set it up.



4. Choose the right down payment for you
A down payment is the amount you pay toward the home yourself. You put a percentage
of the home’s value down and borrow the rest through your mortgage loan.

    YOUR CHOICE
     Check one:

YOUR DOWN PAYMENT               WHAT THAT MEANS FOR YOU

¨ I will put down 20%           A 20% or higher down payment likely provides the best rates and most options.
   or more.                     However, think twice if the down payment drains all your savings.


¨ I will put down               You probably have to pay higher interest rates or fees. Lenders most likely
  between 5%                    require private mortgage insurance (PMI). PMI is an insurance policy that lets
  and 19%.                      you make a lower down payment, because the lender is insured against loss
                                if you fail to pay your mortgage.

                                When you hear about “no PMI” or “lender-paid PMI” offers, that doesn’t mean
                                they cost nothing. The loan offers often have higher interest rates and some
                                could also require you to take out a second mortgage. Be sure you understand
                                the details.


¨ I will make no down           Low down payment programs are typically more expensive because they could
  payment or a small one        require mortgage insurance or come with a higher interest rate. Look closely at
  of less than 5%.              your total fees, interest rate, and monthly payment when comparing options.

                                Ask about loan programs such as:

                                § Conventional loans that might offer low down payment options
                                § FHA, which offers a 3.5% down payment program
                                § VA, which offers a zero down payment option for qualifying veterans
                                § USDA, which offers a similar zero down payment program for eligible
                                  borrowers in rural areas


                                                              SECTION 1: CHOOSING THE BEST MORTGAGE FOR YOU       7
5. Understand the trade-off between points and interest rate
Points are a percentage of a loan amount. For example, when a loan officer talks about one
point on a $100,000 loan, the loan officer is talking about one percent of the loan, which
equals $1,000. Lenders offer different interest rates on loans with different points. There are
three main choices you can make about points. You can decide you don’t want to pay or
receive points at all. This is called a zero point loan. You can pay points at closing to receive a
lower interest rate. Or you can choose to have points paid to you (also called lender credits)
and use them to cover some of your closing costs.

The example below shows the trade-off between points as part of your closing costs and
interest rates. In the example, you borrow $180,000 and qualify for a 30-year fixed-rate loan
at an interest rate of 5.0% with zero points. Rates currently available could be different than
what is shown in this example.


COMPARE THREE SCENARIOS OF HOW POINTS AFFECT INTEREST RATE

    R ATE           4.875%                               5.0%                         5.125%


    POINTS          +0.375                               0                            -0.375


    YOUR            You plan to keep your                You are satisfied            You don’t want to pay a lot
    SITUATION       mortgage for a long time.            with the market rate         of cash up front and you can
                    You can afford to pay more           without points in            afford a larger mortgage
                    cash at closing.                     either direction.            payment.

    YOU MIGHT       Pay points now and get a             Zero points.                 Pay a higher interest rate
    CHOOSE          lower interest rate. This saves                                   and get a lender credit
                    you money over the long run.                                      toward some or all of your
                                                                                      closing costs.

    WHAT THAT       You might agree to pay $675          With no adjustments          You might agree to a higher
    MEANS           more in closing costs, in            in either direction, it is   rate of 5.125%, in exchange
                    exchange for a lower rate of         easier to understand         for $675 toward your closing
                    4.875%.                              what you are paying          costs.
                                                         and to compare
                    Now: You pay $675                    prices.                      Now: You get $675

                    Over the life of the loan:                                        Over the life of the loan:
                    Pay $14 less each month                                           Pay $14 more each month




8    YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
6. Shop with several lenders
You’ve figured out what affordable means for you. You’ve reviewed your credit and the           TIP
kind of mortgage and down payment that best fits your situation. Now is the time to start       A loan officer is
shopping seriously for a loan. The work you do here could save you thousands of dollars         not necessarily
over the life of your mortgage.                                                                 shopping on
                                                                                                your behalf or
                                                                                                providing you
    GATHER FACTS AND COMPARE COSTS                                                             with the best fit
                                                                                                or lowest cost
¨ Make a list of several lenders to start with                                                  loan.
  Mortgages are typically offered by community banks, credit unions, mortgage brokers,
  	
  online lenders, and large banks. These lenders have loan officers you can talk to about       TIP
  your situation.
                                                                                                It is illegal for a
¨ Get the facts from the lenders on your list                                                   lender to pay a
                                                                                                loan officer more
  Find out from the lenders what loan options they recommend for you, and the costs
  	
                                                                                                to steer you into
  and benefits for each. For example, you might find a discount is offered for borrowers        a higher cost
  who have completed a home buyer education program.                                            loan.

¨ Get at least three offers—in writing—so that you can compare them
  Review the decisions you made on pages 3 to 7 to determine the loan type, down payment, total
  	
  monthly home payment, and other features. Now ask at least three different lenders to give you a
  Loan Estimate, which is a standard form showing important facts about the loan. It should be sent
  to you within three days, and it shouldn’t be expensive. Lenders can charge you only a small fee for
  getting your credit report—and some lenders provide the Loan Estimate without that fee.

¨ Compare your upfront costs of getting your loan
  Once
  	     you have at least three Loan Estimates, you can compare what the lenders charge you for
  taking out the loan. Total Loan Costs are shown in Section D, at the bottom left of the second page
  of the Loan Estimate. Total Loan Costs include what your lender charges to make the loan, as well as
  costs for services such as appraisal and title. Concentrate on the costs in Sections A and B, because
  you can shop for the services in Section C, no matter what lender you choose. Section J shows
  lender credits. Lender credits can reduce your upfront costs, and they could also affect your interest
  rate (see examples on page 8).

¨ Compare your costs over the life of the loan
  You
  	 can use the third page of the Loan Estimates to compare the Annual Percentage Rate (APR),
  which is a measure of your costs over the loan term expressed as a rate. Also shown on the third
  page is the Total Interest Percentage (TIP), which is the total amount of interest that you pay over
  the loan term as a percentage of your loan amount. You can use APR and TIP to compare loan offers.
  APR and TIP show costs over the entire term of the loan. A loan with low APR or TIP could have high
  initial costs. For that reason, also check the table to compare costs over the first five years.




                                                             SECTION 1: CHOOSING THE BEST MORTGAGE FOR YOU          9
 RESEARCH STARTER
Loan costs can vary widely from lender to lender, so this is one place where a little research
could help you save a lot of money. Here’s how:
¨ Ask real estate and title professionals about average costs in your area.
¨ Learn more about loan costs, and get help comparing options, at consumerfinance.gov/
  buying-a-house.


      TR ACK YOUR LOAN OFFERS
       Fill in the blanks for these important factors:

                                           LOAN OFFER 1         LOAN OFFER 2               LOAN OFFER 3


Lender name



Loan amount                                                                              


Interest rate                                                                                           

                                           o Fixed              o Fixed                    o Fixed
                                           o Adjustable         o Adjustable               o Adjustable



Monthly principal and interest                                                           


Monthly mortgage insurance                                                               

Total Loan Costs, minus credits
(See section D and section J on the                                                      
second page of your Loan Estimate.)



My best loan offer is:




10    YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
     THE TALK
    Talking to different lenders helps you to know what options are available and to feel
    more in control. Here is one way to start the conversation:

    “This mortgage is a big decision and I want to get it right. Another lender is
     offering me a different loan that seems to cost less. Let’s talk about what the
      differences are and whether you can offer me the best deal.”




7. Choose your mortgage
You’ve done a lot of hard work to get this far! Now it is time to make your choice.


    CONFIRM YOUR DECISION
     Check the box if you agree with the statement:
¨ I can repay this loan.

¨ I am comfortable with my monthly payment.

¨ I shopped enough to know this is a good deal for me.

¨ There are no risky features such as a balloon payment or prepayment penalty I can’t
  handle down the road.

¨ I know whether my principal and interest payment increases in the future.


Still need advice? The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) sponsors
housing counseling agencies throughout the country to provide free or low-cost advice.
To find a HUD-approved housing counselor visit consumerfinance.gov/find-a-housing-
counselor or call HUD’s interactive voice system at (800) 569-4287.


Intent to proceed
When you receive a Loan Estimate, the lender has not yet approved or denied your loan. Up
to this point, they are showing you what they expect to offer if you decide to move forward
with your application. You have not committed to this lender. In fact, you are not committed
to any lender before you have signed final closing documents.

Once you have found your best mortgage, the next step is to tell the loan officer you want
to proceed with that mortgage application. This is called expressing your intent to proceed.
Lenders have to wait until you express your intent to proceed before they require you to pay
an application fee, appraisal fee, or most other fees.


                                                               SECTION 1: CHOOSING THE BEST MORTGAGE FOR YOU   11
Rate lock
Your Loan Estimate could show a rate that has been “locked” or a rate that is “floating,”
which means it can go up or down. Mortgage interest rates change daily, sometimes hourly.
A rate lock sets your interest rate for a period of time. Rate locks are typically available for
30, 45, or 60 days, and sometimes longer.

The interest rate on your Loan Estimate is not a guarantee. If your rate is floating and it
is later locked, your interest rate is set at that later time. Also, if there are changes in your
application—including your loan amount, credit score, or verified income—your rate and
terms could change too. In those situations, the lender gives you a revised Loan Estimate.

There can be a downside to a rate lock. It could be expensive to extend if your transaction
needs more time. And, a rate lock might lock you out of better market pricing if rates fall.




      THE TALK
     Rate lock policies vary by lender. Choosing to lock or float your rate can make an
     important difference in your monthly payment. To avoid surprises, ask:

     “What does it mean if I lock my rate today?”

     “What rate lock time frame does this Loan Estimate provide?”

     “Is a shorter or longer rate lock available, and at what cost?”

     “What if my closing is delayed and the rate lock expires?”

     “If I lock my rate, are there any conditions under which my rate could
      still change?”




12   YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
8. Avoid pitfalls
WHAT NOT TO DO                   WHY?


Don’t sign documents where       You are agreeing to repay a substantial amount of money over an
important details are left       extended period of time. Make sure you know what you are getting into
blank or documents you don’t     and protect yourself from fraud.
understand.


Don’t assume you are on          HUD-approved housing counselors can help you navigate the process
your own.                        and find programs available to help first-time homebuyers.

                                 You can find a HUD-approved housing counselor in your area at
                                 consumerfinance.gov/find-a-housing-counselor or call HUD’s
                                 interactive voice system at (800) 569-4287.


Don’t take on more mortgage      Make certain that you want the loan that you are requesting and that
than you want or can afford.     you are in a position to live up to your end of the bargain. Just because
                                 a lender qualifies you for a loan payment amount doesn’t mean it fits
                                 your budget.


Don’t count on refinancing,      If you are not comfortable with the loan offered to you, ask your lender
and don’t take out a loan if     if there is another option that works for you. Keep looking until you find
you already know you have to     the right loan for your situation.
change it later.


Don’t fudge numbers or           You are responsible for an accurate and truthful application. Be upfront
documents.                       about your situation. Mortgage fraud is a serious offense.


Don’t hide important financial   Hiding negative information might delay or derail your loan application.
information.




                                                     SECTION 1: CHOOSING THE BEST MORTGAGE FOR YOU       13
Handle problems
WHAT HAPPENED                     WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT


I have experienced a              Ask to talk to a supervisor. It could be a good idea to talk to the
problem with my loan              loan officer first, and if you are not satisfied, ask to speak with
application or how my loan        a supervisor. You can look up more about your loan officer at
officer is treating me.           nmlsconsumeraccess.org.


I think I was unlawfully          The Fair Housing Act and Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibit
discriminated against when        housing and credit discrimination. If you think you have been
I applied for a loan or when I    discriminated against during any part of the mortgage process, you
tried to buy a home.              can submit a complaint and describe what happened. To do so, you
                                  can call the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at (855) 411-2372
                                  or visit consumerfinance.gov/complaint. Submit a complaint to
                                  the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) by
                                  calling (800) 669-9777, TTY (800) 927-9275. Or file a complaint online
                                  at HUD.gov/reporthousingdiscrimination.


I have a complaint.               Submit a complaint to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
                                  if you have problems at any stage of the mortgage application or
                                  closing process, or later if you have problems making payments
                                  or become unable to pay. You can call (855) 411-2372 or visit
                                  consumerfinance.gov/complaint.


I think I was a victim of a       Don’t believe anyone who tells you they are your “only chance to
predatory lender or loan fraud.   get a loan,” or that you must “act fast.” Learn the warning signs of
                                  predatory lending and protect yourself. Find more information at
                                  hud.gov/sites/documents/2003-01h.pdf.




14   YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
Your closing
         You’ve chosen a mortgage. Now it’s time to select and
         work with your closing agent.
Once you’ve applied for a mortgage, you might feel like you’re done.
But mortgages are complicated and you still have choices to make.

   IN THIS SECTION
   1. Shop for mortgage closing services

   2. Review your revised Loan Estimate

   3. Understand and use your Closing Disclosure



1. Shop for mortgage closing services
Once you have decided to move forward with a lender based on the Loan Estimate, you are            TIP
ready to shop for the closing agent, who gathers all the legal documents, closes the loan,         Settlement
and handles the money involved in your purchase. After you apply for a loan, your lender           services
gives you a list of companies that provide closing services. You might want to use one of the      probably feel
                                                                                                   like a drop in
companies on the list, but you don’t have to. You can choose a closing agent that is not on        the bucket
the list if your lender agrees to work with your choice. The seller cannot require you to buy a    compared to the
title insurance policy from a particular title company.                                            cost of the home.
                                                                                                   But in some
                                                                                                   states borrowers
                                                                                                   who shop
Closing agent                                                                                      around could
In most of the country, a settlement agent does your closing. In other states, particularly        save hundreds of
                                                                                                   dollars.
several states in the West, the person is known as an escrow agent. In some states,
particularly in the Northeast and South, an attorney might be required.


                                                                                        SECTION 2: YOUR CLOSING   15
 RESEARCH STARTER
When you compare closing agents, look at both cost and customer service.

¨ Ask your real estate professional and your friends. These people might know companies
  they would recommend. Be sure to ask how that company handled problems and if they
  have a good reputation.

¨ Review the list of companies your lender gave you. Select a few companies on the list
  and ask for references from people who recently bought a home. Ask those people how
  the company handled problems that came up during the transaction.


Title insurance
When you purchase your home, you receive a document most often called a deed, which
shows the seller transferred their legal ownership, or “title,” to the home to you. Title
insurance can provide protection if someone later sues and says they have a claim against
the home. Common claims come from a previous owner’s failure to pay taxes or from
contractors who say they were not paid for work done on the home before you purchased it.

Most lenders require a Lender’s Title Insurance policy, which protects the amount they
lent. Though it is not required, you might want to buy an Owner’s Title Insurance policy,
which protects your financial investment in the home. The Loan Estimate you receive lists
the Owner’s Title Insurance policy as optional if your lender does not require the policy as a
condition of the loan.

Depending on the state where you are buying your home, your title insurance company
might give you an itemized list of fees at closing. This itemized list could be required under
state law and could be different from what you see on your Loan Estimate or Closing
Disclosure. That does not mean you are being charged more. If you add up all the title-
related costs your title insurance company gives you, it should match the totals of all the
title-related costs you see on your Loan Estimate or Closing Disclosure. When comparing
costs for title insurance, make sure to compare the bottom-line total.


Home inspector and home appraiser
When you are considering buying a home, it is smart to check it out carefully to see if it is in
good condition. The person who does this for you is called a home inspector. The inspector
works for you and should tell you whether the home you want to buy is in good condition
and whether you are buying a “money pit” of expensive repairs. Get your inspection before
you are finally committed to buy the home.




16   YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
A home inspector is different from a home appraiser. The appraiser is an independent
professional whose job is to give the lender an estimate of the home’s market value. You are
entitled to a copy of the appraisal prior to your closing. This allows you to see how the price
you agreed to pay compares to similar and recent property sales in your area.



2. Review your revised Loan Estimate
When important information changes, your lender is required to give you a new Loan
Estimate that shows your new loan offer.

It is illegal for a lender to quote you low fees and costs for its services on your Loan Estimate
and then surprise you with much higher costs in a revised Loan Estimate or Closing
Disclosure. However, a lender is allowed to change the fees it quotes you for its services if the
facts on your application were wrong or changed, you asked for a change, your lender found
you did not qualify for the original loan offer, or your Loan Estimate expired.

Here are common reasons why your Loan Estimate might change:

§ You decided to change loan programs or the amount of your down payment

§ The appraisal on the home you want to buy came in higher or lower than expected

§ You took out a new loan or missed a payment and that has changed your credit

§ Your lender could not document your overtime, bonus, or other income




      THE TALK
     If your Loan Estimate is revised, you should look it over to see what changed.
     Ask your lender:

     “Can you explain why I received a new Loan Estimate?”

     “How is my loan transaction different from what I was originally expecting?”

     “How does this change my loan amount, interest rate, monthly payment, cash
       to close, and other loan features?”




                                                                                        SECTION 2: YOUR CLOSING   17
3. Understand and use your Closing Disclosure
You’ve chosen a home you want to buy and your offer has been accepted. You’ve                TIP
also applied for and been approved for a mortgage. Now you are ready to take legal           The online Closing
possession of the home and promise to repay your loan.                                       Disclosure Explainer
                                                                                             (consumerfinance.
At least three days before your closing, you should get your official Closing                gov/owning-a-home/
Disclosure, which is a five-page document that gives you more details about your             closing-disclosure)
                                                                                             guides you through
loan, its key terms, and how much you are paying in fees and other costs to get your         details to check
mortgage and buy your home.                                                                  on your Closing
                                                                                             Disclosure and
Many of the costs you pay at closing are set by the decisions you made when you              defines key terms for
                                                                                             you.
were shopping for a mortgage. Charges shown under “services you can shop for”
might increase at closing, but generally by no more than 10% of the costs listed on
your final Loan Estimate.

The Closing Disclosure breaks down your closing costs into two big categories:

YOUR LOAN COSTS                                            OTHER COSTS
§ The lender’s Origination Costs to make or                § Property taxes.
  “originate” the loan, along with application fees
  and fees to underwrite your loan. Underwriting is        § Homeowner’s insurance. You can shop around
  the lender’s term for making sure your credit and          for homeowner’s insurance from your current
  financial information is accurate and you meet the         insurance company, or many others, until you
  lender’s requirements for a loan.                          find the combination of premium, coverage, and
                                                             customer service that fits your situation. Your
§ Discount points—that is, additional money you pay          lender asks you for proof you have an insurance
  up front to reduce your interest rate.                     policy on your new home.

§ Services you shopped for, such as your closing or        § Any portion of your total mortgage payment you
  settlement agent and related title costs.                  must make before your first full payment is due.

§ Services your lender requires for your loan. These       § Flood insurance, if required.
  include appraisals and credit reports.


 RESEARCH STARTER
Get tips and help with the rest of the documents you’ll see at closing
at consumerfinance.gov/buying-a-house.




18   YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
What is your Closing Disclosure?
The five-page Closing Disclosure sums up the terms of your loan and what you pay at closing.
You can easily compare the numbers to the Loan Estimate you received earlier. There should
not be any significant changes other than those you have already agreed to.

Take out your own Closing Disclosure, or review the example here. Double-check that you
clearly understand what you are expected to pay—over the life of your loan and at closing.


                                                                                                                                                            ON PAGE 1 OF 5

                                                                     This form is a statement of final loan terms and closing costs. Compare this           Loan terms
      Closing Disclosure                                             document with your Loan Estimate.
                                                                                                                                                            Review your monthly payment.
      Closing Information                                 Transaction Information                                 Loan Information
      Date Issued
      Closing Date
                          4/15/2013
                          4/15/2013
                                                          Borrower      Michael Jones and Mary Stone
                                                                        123 Anywhere Street
                                                                                                                  Loan Term
                                                                                                                  Purpose
                                                                                                                                30 years
                                                                                                                                Purchase
                                                                                                                                                            Part of it goes to repay what you
      Disbursement Date   4/15/2013                                     Anytown, ST 12345                         Product       Fixed Rate
      Settlement Agent
      File #
                          Epsilon Title Co.
                          12-3456
                                                          Seller        Steve Cole and Amy Doe
                                                                        321 Somewhere Drive                       Loan Type     x Conventional  FHA
                                                                                                                                                            borrowed (and can build equity
      Property            456 Somewhere Ave
                          Anytown, ST 12345               Lender
                                                                        Anytown, ST 12345
                                                                        Ficus Bank                                Loan ID #
                                                                                                                                  VA   _____________
                                                                                                                                123456789                   in your new home), and part of it
      Sale Price          $180,000                                                                                MIC #         000654321
                                                                                                                                                            goes to pay interest (which doesn’t
        Loan Terms                                                              Can this amount increase after closing?
        Loan Amount                             $162,000                        NO
                                                                                                                                                            build equity). Equity is the current
        Interest Rate                           3.875%                          NO                                                                          market value of your home minus
        Monthly Principal & Interest            $761.78                         NO                                                                          the amount you still owe on your
        See Projected Payments below for your
        Estimated Total Monthly Payment
                                                                                                                                                            mortgage.
                                                                                Does the loan have these features?
        Prepayment Penalty                                                      YES     • As high as $3,240 if you pay off the loan during the
                                                                                          first 2 years                                                     Costs at Closing
        Balloon Payment                                                         NO
                                                                                                                                                            Be prepared to bring the full “Cash
        Projected Payments                                                                                                                                  to Close” amount with you to your
        Payment Calculation                                         Years 1-7                                           Years 8-30
                                                                                                                                                            closing. This amount includes your
         Principal & Interest                                         $761.78                                             $761.78

         Mortgage Insurance                               +              82.35                                  +              —
                                                                                                                                                            down payment and closing costs,
         Estimated Escrow
         Amount can increase over time
                                                          +             206.13                                  +             206.13                        minus any deposits and credits.
         Estimated Total
         Monthly Payment                                           $1,050.26                                            $967.91                             The closing costs are itemized on
                                                                           This estimate includes                               In escrow?                  the following pages.
        Estimated Taxes, Insurance                                         x Property Taxes                                     YES
        & Assessments                           $356.13                    x Homeowner’s Insurance                              YES
        Amount can increase over time           a month                    x Other: Homeowner’s Association Dues                NO
        See page 4 for details
                                                                           See Escrow Account on page 4 for details. You must pay for other property
                                                                           costs separately.


        Costs at Closing

        Closing Costs                           $9,712.10            Includes $4,694.05 in Loan Costs + $5,018.05 in Other Costs – $0
                                                                     in Lender Credits. See page 2 for details.

        Cash to Close                           $14,147.26           Includes Closing Costs. See Calculating Cash to Close on page 3 for details.



       CLOSING DISCLOSURE                                                                                               PAGE 1 OF 5 • LOAN ID # 123456789




Closing Disclosure, page 1. The most important facts about your loan are on the first page.




                                                                                                                                                                   SECTION 2: YOUR CLOSING    19
ON PAGE 2 OF 5
                                            Closing Cost Details
Total Loan Costs                             Loan Costs
                                                                                                                             Borrower-Paid                 Seller-Paid           Paid by
                                                                                                                                                                                 Others
                                                                                                                        At Closing Before Closing   At Closing Before Closing

Origination charges are fees your           A. Origination Charges
                                            01 0.25 % of Loan Amount (Points)
                                                                                                                              $1,802.00
                                                                                                                          $405.00
                                            02 Application Fee                                                             $300.00
lender charges to make your loan.           03 Underwriting Fee
                                            04
                                                                                                                         $1,097.00

                                            05
Some closing costs are fees paid            06
                                            07
                                            08
to the providers selected by your           B. Services Borrower Did Not Shop For
                                            01 Appraisal Fee                    to John Smith Appraisers Inc.
                                                                                                                               $236.55
                                                                                                                                                                                    $405.00
                                            02 Credit Report Fee                to Information Inc.                                       $29.80
lender. Some are fees you pay to            03 Flood Determination Fee
                                            04 Flood Monitoring Fee
                                                                                to Info Co.
                                                                                to Info Co.
                                                                                                                            $20.00
                                                                                                                            $31.75

providers you chose on your own.
                                            05 Tax Monitoring Fee               to Info Co.                                 $75.00
                                            06 Tax Status Research Fee          to Info Co.                                 $80.00
                                            07
                                            08
                                            09

Prepaids                                    10
                                            C. Services Borrower Did Shop For                                                $2,655.50
                                            01 Pest Inspection Fee              to Pests Co.                              $120.50
Homeowner’s insurance is often              02 Survey Fee
                                            03 Title – Insurance Binder
                                                                                to Surveys Co.
                                                                                to Epsilon Title Co.
                                                                                                                           $85.00
                                                                                                                          $650.00
                                            04 Title – Lender’s Title Insurance to Epsilon Title Co.                      $500.00
paid in advance for the first full          05 Title – Settlement Agent Fee
                                            06 Title – Title Search
                                                                                to Epsilon Title Co.
                                                                                to Epsilon Title Co.
                                                                                                                          $500.00
                                                                                                                          $800.00
                                            07
year. Also, some taxes and other            08
                                            D. TOTAL LOAN COSTS (Borrower-Paid)                                               $4,694.05

fees need to be paid in advance.            Loan Costs Subtotals (A + B + C)                                             $4,664.25        $29.80


                                             Other Costs
                                            E. Taxes and Other Government Fees                                                  $85.00

Escrow                                      01 Recording Fees
                                            02 Transfer Tax
                                                                                   Deed: $40.00
                                                                                   to Any State
                                                                                                     Mortgage: $45.00       $85.00
                                                                                                                                                       $950.00
                                            F. Prepaids                                                                       $2,120.80

An escrow or impound account                01 Homeowner’s Insurance Premium ( 12 mo.) to Insurance Co.
                                            02 Mortgage Insurance Premium ( mo.)
                                                                                                                         $1,209.96

                                            03 Prepaid Interest ( $17.44 per day from 4/15/13 to 5/1/13 )                 $279.04

is a special account where                  04 Property Taxes ( 6 mo.) to Any County USA
                                            05
                                                                                                                          $631.80

                                            G. Initial Escrow Payment at Closing                                              $412.25
monthly insurance and tax                   01 Homeowner’s Insurance $100.83 per month for 2 mo.
                                            02 Mortgage Insurance                  per month for mo.
                                                                                                                          $201.66

                                            03 Property Taxes            $105.30 per month for 2 mo.                      $210.60
payments are held until they                04
                                            05
                                            06
are paid out each year. You get             07
                                            08 Aggregate Adjustment                                                         – 0.01

a statement showing how much
                                            H. Other                                                                          $2,400.00
                                            01 HOA Capital Contribution            to HOA Acre Inc.                       $500.00
                                            02 HOA Processing Fee                  to HOA Acre Inc.                       $150.00

money your lender or mortgage               03 Home Inspection Fee
                                            04 Home Warranty Fee
                                                                                   to Engineers Inc.
                                                                                   to XYZ Warranty Inc.
                                                                                                                          $750.00
                                                                                                                                                      $450.00
                                                                                                                                                                     $750.00

                                            05 Real Estate Commission              to Alpha Real Estate Broker                                       $5,700.00

servicer plans to require for your          06 Real Estate Commission              to Omega Real Estate Broker
                                            07 Title – Owner’s Title Insurance (optional) to Epsilon Title Co.           $1,000.00
                                                                                                                                                     $5,700.00

                                            08

escrow or impound account.                  I. TOTAL OTHER COSTS (Borrower-Paid)
                                            Other Costs Subtotals (E + F + G + H)
                                                                                                                              $5,018.05
                                                                                                                         $5,018.05


                                            J. TOTAL CLOSING COSTS (Borrower-Paid)                                            $9,712.10

You also get an annual analysis             Closing Costs Subtotals (D + I)
                                            Lender Credits
                                                                                                                         $9,682.30        $29.80    $12,800.00       $750.00       $405.00



showing what happened to the                CLOSING DISCLOSURE                                                                                             PAGE 2 OF 5 • LOAN ID # 123456789



money in your account. Your           Details of your closing costs appear on page 2 of the Closing Disclosure.
lender must follow federal rules to
make sure they do not end up with
a large surplus or shortage in your
escrow or impound account.




20   YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
                                                                                                                                                                        ON PAGE 3 OF 5
       Calculating Cash to Close                     Use this table to see what has changed from your Loan Estimate.                                                    Calculating Cash to Close
                                                  Loan Estimate          Final         Did this change?
       Total Closing Costs (J)                         $8,054.00          $9,712.10    YES     • See Total Loan Costs (D) and Total Other Costs (I)                     Closing costs are only a part of
       Closing Costs Paid Before Closing                         $0        – $29.80    YES     • You paid these Closing Costs before closing
       Closing Costs Financed
       (Paid from your Loan Amount)                              $0              $0    NO                                                                               the total cash you need to bring
       Down Payment/Funds from Borrower               $18,000.00         $18,000.00    NO
       Deposit                                      – $10,000.00       – $10,000.00    NO                                                                               to closing.
       Funds for Borrower                                        $0              $0    NO
       Seller Credits                                            $0      – $2,500.00   YES     • See Seller Credits in Section L
       Adjustments and Other Credits                             $0      – $1,035.04   YES     • See details in Sections K and L                                        Summaries of Transactions
       Cash to Close                                   $16,054.00        $14,147.26

                                                                                                                                                                        The section at the bottom of the
       Summaries of Transactions                     Use this table to see a summary of your transaction.                                                               page sums up how the money
       BORROWER’S TRANSACTION                                                                SELLER’S TRANSACTION
       K. Due from Borrower at Closing
       01 Sale Price of Property
                                                                      $189,762.30
                                                                      $180,000.00
                                                                                             M. Due to Seller at Closing
                                                                                             01 Sale Price of Property
                                                                                                                                                       $180,080.00
                                                                                                                                                        $180,000.00
                                                                                                                                                                        flows among you, the lender, and
       02 Sale Price of Any Personal Property Included in Sale
       03 Closing Costs Paid at Closing (J)                             $9,682.30
                                                                                             02 Sale Price of Any Personal Property Included in Sale
                                                                                             03                                                                         the seller.
       04                                                                                    04
       Adjustments                                                                           05
       05                                                                                    06
       06                                                                                    07
       07                                                                                    08
       Adjustments for Items Paid by Seller in Advance                                       Adjustments for Items Paid by Seller in Advance
       08    City/Town Taxes            to                                                   09 City/Town Taxes               to
       09    County Taxes               to                                                   10 County Taxes                  to
       10    Assessments                to                                                   11 Assessments                   to
       11    HOA Dues         4/15/13 to 4/30/13                           $80.00            12 HOA Dues           4/15/13 to 4/30/13                        $80.00
       12                                                                                    13
       13                                                                                    14
       14                                                                                    15
       15                                                                                    16
       L. Paid Already by or on Behalf of Borrower at Closing         $175,615.04            N. Due from Seller at Closing                             $115,665.04
       01 Deposit                                                       $10,000.00           01 Excess Deposit
       02 Loan Amount                                                  $162,000.00           02 Closing Costs Paid at Closing (J)                        $12,800.00
       03 Existing Loan(s) Assumed or Taken Subject to                                       03 Existing Loan(s) Assumed or Taken Subject to
       04                                                                                    04 Payoff of First Mortgage Loan                           $100,000.00
       05 Seller Credit                                                 $2,500.00            05 Payoff of Second Mortgage Loan
       Other Credits                                                                         06
       06 Rebate from Epsilon Title Co.                                   $750.00            07
       07                                                                                    08 Seller Credit                                              $2,500.00
       Adjustments                                                                           09
       08                                                                                    10
       09                                                                                    11
       10                                                                                    12
       11                                                                                    13
       Adjustments for Items Unpaid by Seller                                                Adjustments for Items Unpaid by Seller
       12     City/Town Taxes 1/1/13 to 4/14/13                           $365.04            14    City/Town Taxes 1/1/13 to 4/14/13                      $365.04
       13     County Taxes              to                                                   15    County Taxes               to
       14     Assessments               to                                                   16    Assessments                to
       15                                                                                    17
       16                                                                                    18
       17                                                                                    19
       CALCULATION                                                                           CALCULATION
       Total Due from Borrower at Closing (K)                          $189,762.30           Total Due to Seller at Closing (M)                          $180,080.00
       Total Paid Already by or on Behalf of Borrower at Closing (L) – $175,615.04           Total Due from Seller at Closing (N)                      – $115,665.04
       Cash to Close x From            To Borrower                    $14,147.26             Cash      From x To Seller                                 $64,414.96

      CLOSING DISCLOSURE                                                                                                            PAGE 3 OF 5 • LOAN ID # 123456789




A summary of important financial information appears on page 3 of the Closing Disclosure.




       USE YOUR CLOSING DISCLOSURE TO CONFIRM THE DETAILS OF YOUR LOAN
        Circle one. If you answer no, turn to the page indicated for more information:

The interest rate is what I was expecting based on my Loan Estimate.                                                                                                    YES / NO      (see page 9)

I know whether I have a balloon payment or a prepayment penalty.                                                                                                        YES / NO      (see pages 6 and 7)

I know whether my payment changes in future years.                                                                                                                      YES / NO      (see page 6)

I see whether I am paying points or receiving points at closing.                                                                                                        YES / NO      (see page 8)

I know whether I have an escrow account.                                                                                                                                YES / NO      (see page 20)


                                                                                                                                                                               SECTION 2: YOUR CLOSING     21
ON PAGE 4 OF 5

Loan Disclosures                              Additional Information About This Loan

Page 4 breaks down what is and                 Loan Disclosures
                                              Assumption                                                              Escrow Account
is not included in your escrow or             If you sell or transfer this property to another person, your lender
                                                  will allow, under certain conditions, this person to assume this
                                                                                                                      For now, your loan
                                                                                                                      x will have an escrow account (also called an “impound” or “trust”

impound account. Make sure you                    loan on the original terms.                                            account) to pay the property costs listed below. Without an escrow
                                               x will not allow assumption of this loan on the original terms.           account, you would pay them directly, possibly in one or two large
                                                                                                                         payments a year. Your lender may be liable for penalties and interest

understand what is paid from your             Demand Feature
                                              Your loan
                                                                                                                         for failing to make a payment.


                                                has a demand feature, which permits your lender to require early       Escrow
escrow account and what you are                 repayment of the loan. You should review your note for details.        Escrowed              $2,473.56 Estimated total amount over year 1 for
                                              x does not have a demand feature.                                        Property Costs                  your escrowed property costs:
                                                                                                                       over Year 1                     Homeowner’s Insurance
responsible for paying yourself.              Late Payment
                                                                                                                                                       Property Taxes

                                              If your payment is more than 15 days late, your lender will charge a
                                                                                                                       Non-Escrowed          $1,800.00 Estimated total amount over year 1 for
                                              late fee of 5% of the monthly principal and interest payment.            Property Costs                  your non-escrowed property costs:
                                                                                                                       over Year 1                     Homeowner’s Association Dues
                                              Negative Amortization (Increase in Loan Amount)
                                              Under your loan terms, you                                                                                You may have other property costs.
                                                are scheduled to make monthly payments that do not pay all of          Initial Escrow         $412.25 A cushion for the escrow account you
                                                the interest due that month. As a result, your loan amount will        Payment                        pay at closing. See Section G on page 2.
                                                increase (negatively amortize), and your loan amount will likely
                                                become larger than your original loan amount. Increases in your
                                                loan amount lower the equity you have in this property.                Monthly Escrow         $206.13 The amount included in your total
                                                                                                                       Payment                        monthly payment.
                                                may have monthly payments that do not pay all of the interest
                                                due that month. If you do, your loan amount will increase
                                                (negatively amortize), and, as a result, your loan amount may
                                                                                                                         will not have an escrow account because you declined it       your
                                                become larger than your original loan amount. Increases in your
                                                                                                                         lender does not offer one. You must directly pay your property
                                                loan amount lower the equity you have in this property.
                                                                                                                         costs, such as taxes and homeowner’s insurance. Contact your
                                              x do not have a negative amortization feature.                             lender to ask if your loan can have an escrow account.
                                              Partial Payments                                                         No Escrow
                                              Your lender                                                              Estimated                        Estimated total amount over year 1. You
                                               x may accept payments that are less than the full amount due            Property Costs                   must pay these costs directly, possibly
                                                  (partial payments) and apply them to your loan.                      over Year 1                      in one or two large payments a year.
                                                  may hold them in a separate account until you pay the rest of the    Escrow Waiver Fee
                                                  payment, and then apply the full payment to your loan.
                                                  does not accept any partial payments.                               In the future,
                                                                                                                      Your property costs may change and, as a result, your escrow pay-
                                              If this loan is sold, your new lender may have a different policy.
                                                                                                                      ment may change. You may be able to cancel your escrow account,
                                                                                                                      but if you do, you must pay your property costs directly. If you fail
                                              Security Interest
                                                                                                                      to pay your property taxes, your state or local government may (1)
                                              You are granting a security interest in
                                                                                                                      impose fines and penalties or (2) place a tax lien on this property. If
                                              456 Somewhere Ave., Anytown, ST 12345                                   you fail to pay any of your property costs, your lender may (1) add
                                                                                                                      the amounts to your loan balance, (2) add an escrow account to your
                                                                                                                      loan, or (3) require you to pay for property insurance that the lender
                                              You may lose this property if you do not make your payments or          buys on your behalf, which likely would cost more and provide fewer
                                              satisfy other obligations for this loan.                                benefits than what you could buy on your own.




                                              CLOSING DISCLOSURE                                                                                            PAGE 4 OF 5 • LOAN ID # 1234567890




                                        More details of your loan appear on page 4 of your Closing Disclosure.




      THE TALK
     If anything on the Closing Disclosure is not clear to you, ask your lender
     or settlement agent to explain. Ask them:

     “What does this mean?”

     “Has something changed? Why, and what does it mean for me?”




22   YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
                                                                                                                                                            ON PAGE 5 OF 5
        Loan Calculations                                                        Other Disclosures                                                          Finance Charge
       Total of Payments. Total you will have paid after                       Appraisal
       you make all payments of principal, interest,
       mortgage insurance, and loan costs, as scheduled.        $285,803.36
                                                                               If the property was appraised for your loan, your lender is required to
                                                                               give you a copy at no additional cost at least 3 days before closing.
                                                                                                                                                            In addition to paying back the
       Finance Charge. The dollar amount the loan will
                                                                               If you have not yet received it, please contact your lender at the
                                                                               information listed below.                                                    amount you are borrowing, you
       cost you.                                                $118,830.27

       Amount Financed. The loan amount available after
                                                                               Contract Details
                                                                               See your note and security instrument for information about                  pay a lot of interest over the
                                                                                 • what happens if you fail to make your payments,
       paying your upfront finance charge.                      $162,000.00
                                                                                 • what is a default on the loan,
                                                                                 • situations in which your lender can require early repayment of the       life of the loan. This is why it is
       Annual Percentage Rate (APR). Your costs over                               loan, and
       the loan term expressed as a rate. This is not your
       interest rate.                                               4.174%
                                                                                 • the rules for making payments before they are due.
                                                                                                                                                            worthwhile to shop carefully for
                                                                               Liability after Foreclosure
       Total Interest Percentage (TIP). The total amount
       of interest that you will pay over the loan term as a
                                                                               If your lender forecloses on this property and the foreclosure does not
                                                                               cover the amount of unpaid balance on this loan,
                                                                                                                                                            the best loan for your situation.
       percentage of your loan amount.                              69.46%      x state law may protect you from liability for the unpaid balance. If you
                                                                                   refinance or take on any additional debt on this property, you may
                                                                                   lose this protection and have to pay any debt remaining even after
                                                                                   foreclosure. You may want to consult a lawyer for more information.
                                                                                                                                                            Annual Percentage Rate (APR)
                                                                                   state law does not protect you from liability for the unpaid balance.




          ?
                        Questions? If you have questions about the
                                                                                                                                                            Your APR is your total cost of
                                                                               Refinance
                        loan terms or costs on this form, use the contact
                        information below. To get more information
                                                                               Refinancing this loan will depend on your future financial situation,
                                                                               the property value, and market conditions. You may not be able to            credit stated as a rate. Your APR is
                        or make a complaint, contact the Consumer              refinance this loan.
                        Financial Protection Bureau at
                        www.consumerfinance.gov/mortgage-closing               Tax Deductions
                                                                                                                                                            generally higher than your interest
                                                                               If you borrow more than this property is worth, the interest on the
                                                                               loan amount above this property’s fair market value is not deductible
                                                                               from your federal income taxes. You should consult a tax advisor for
                                                                                                                                                            rate, because the APR takes into
                                                                               more information.

        Contact Information
                                                                                                                                                            consideration all the costs of your
                              Lender                   Mortgage Broker        Real Estate Broker
                                                                              (B)
                                                                                                      Real Estate Broker
                                                                                                      (S)
                                                                                                                                Settlement Agent
                                                                                                                                                            loan, over the full term of the loan.
        Name                  Ficus Bank               FRIENDLY MORTGAGE      Omega Real Estate       Alpha Real Estate         Epsilon Title Co.
                                                       BROKER INC.            Broker Inc.             Broker Co.
        Address               4321 Random Blvd.        1234 Terrapin Dr.      789 Local Lane          987 Suburb Ct.            123 Commerce Pl.
                              Somecity, ST 12340       Somecity, MD 54321     Sometown, ST 12345      Someplace, ST 12340       Somecity, ST 12344
                                                                              45
        NMLS ID                                        222222
        ST License ID                                                         Z765416                 Z61456                    Z61616
        Contact               Joe Smith                JIM TAYLOR             Samuel Green            Joseph Cain               Sarah Arnold
        Contact NMLS ID       12345                    394784
        Contact                                                               P16415                  P51461                    PT1234
        ST License ID
        Email                 joesmith@                JTAYLOR@               sam@omegare.biz         joe@alphare.biz           sarah@
                              ficusbank.com            FRNDLYMTGBRKR.CM                                                         epsilontitle.com
        Phone                 123-456-7890             333-444-5555           123-555-1717            321-555-7171              987-555-4321



        Confirm Receipt
       By signing, you are only confirming that you have received this form. You do not have to accept this loan because you have signed or received
       this form.




       Applicant Signature                              Date                   Co-Applicant Signature                            Date

       CLOSING DISCLOSURE                                                                                             PAGE 5 OF 5 • LOAN ID # 123456789




Loan calculations, disclosures, and contact information for your files are on page 5 of the Closing Disclosure.




NOW                                                                           IN THE FUTURE
§ Now you’ve spent time                                                       § If you are not comfortable with your
  understanding what you need                                                   mortgage and your responsibility to make
  to do and what you need to pay,                                               payments, you might not be able to keep
  as a new homeowner.                                                           your home.

§ Now is the time to step back                                                § If you’ve made a careful decision about
  and feel sure you want to                                                     what you can afford and the mortgage you
  proceed with the loan.                                                        wanted, you can balance owning your home
                                                                                and meeting your other money goals.




                                                                                                                                                                    SECTION 2: YOUR CLOSING       23
Owning your home
          Now you’ve closed on your mortgage and the
          home is yours.
Owning a home is exciting. Your home is also a large investment.
Here’s how to protect that investment.

     IN THIS SECTION
     1. Act fast if you get behind on your payments

     2. Keep up with ongoing costs

     3. Determine if you need flood insurance

     4. Understand Home Equity Lines of Credit (HELOCs) and refinancing



1. Act fast if you get behind on your payments
If you fall behind on your mortgage, the company that accepts payments on your mortgage
contacts you. This company is your mortgage servicer. Your servicer is required to let you
know what options are available to avoid foreclosure. Talk to your mortgage servicer if
you get into trouble, and call a housing counselor (see page 13 for contact information).
HUD-approved counselors are professionals who can help you, often at little or no cost to you.

Homeowners struggling to pay a mortgage should beware of scammers promising to lower
mortgage payments. Only your mortgage servicer can evaluate you for a loan modification.
If you suspect a scam you can call (855) 411-2372 or visit consumerfinance.gov/complaint.



2. Keep up with ongoing costs
Your mortgage payment is just one part of what it costs to live in your new home. Your
escrow account holds your monthly taxes and homeowner’s insurance payments—but if
you have no escrow account, you need to keep up with these on your own. Your home needs
maintenance and repairs, so budget and save for these too.



24    YOUR HOME LOAN TOOLKIT
3. Determine if you need flood insurance
Flooding causes more than $45 billion in damages in the United States in an average year.
You can protect your home and its contents from flood damage. Depending on your property
location, your home is considered either at high risk or at moderate-to-low risk for a flood.
Your insurance premium varies accordingly. You can find out more about flood insurance at
FloodSmart.gov. Private flood insurance could also be available.

Although you may not be required to maintain flood insurance on all structures, you may
still wish to do so, and your mortgage lender may still require you to do so to protect
the collateral securing the mortgage. If you choose to not maintain flood insurance on a
structure, and it floods, you are responsible for all flood losses relating to that structure. You
might also be required to buy flood insurance in the future, if your flood risk zone changes.



4. Understand Home Equity Lines of Credit (HELOCs) and
   refinancing
Homeowners sometimes decide they want to borrow against the value of their home to help
remodel or pay for other large expenses. One way to do this is with a Home Equity Line of
Credit (HELOC). You can learn more about HELOCs at consumerfinance.gov/learnmore.

Financial counselors caution homeowners against using a HELOC to wipe out credit card
debt. If you use a HELOC as a quick fix to a serious spending problem, you could end up back
in debt and lose your home.

If you decide to take out a HELOC or refinance your mortgage, the Truth in Lending Act (TILA)
gives you the right to rescind, meaning you can change your mind and cancel the loan. But
you can only rescind a refinance or HELOC within three days of receiving a proper notice of
the right to rescind from your lender. You cannot rescind if you are using your HELOC to buy
a home.

In the case of a refinance, consider how long it takes for the monthly savings to pay for the
cost of the refinance. Review the closing costs you paid for your original loan to purchase the
home. Refinancing costs can be about the same amount. Also, check your loan documents
or ask your servicer to see if a prepayment penalty applies. A common rule of thumb is to
proceed only if the new interest rate saves you that amount over about two years (in other
words, if you break even in about two years).


 Congratulations!
You have accomplished a lot. It is not easy—you should feel proud of the work you’ve done.



                                                                                    SECTION 3: OWNING YOUR HOME   25
Online tools
CFPB website
consumerfinance.gov

Answers to common questions
consumerfinance.gov/askcfpb

Tools and resources for home buyers
consumerfinance.gov/buying-a-house

Talk to a housing counselor
consumerfinance.gov/find-a-housing-counselor


General inquiries
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
445 12th St. SW
Washington, DC 20024


Submit a complaint
Online
consumerfinance.gov/complaint

 y phone
B
855-411-CFPB (2372)
TTY/TDD 855-729-CFPB (2372)
9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Eastern time, Monday to Friday

 y mail
B
P.O. Box 27170
Washington, DC 20038
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau




                                                  Last updated July 2026
