Quickstart Guide | Helm
Skip to main content
🎉 Helm 4 is out! See the Helm 4 Overview for details!
Helm Docs Community Blog Charts
4.3.0 4.3.0 3.22.0 2.17.0
English English Deutsch (German) Ελληνικά (Greek) Español (Spanish) Français (French) Italiano (Italian) 日本語 (Japanese) 한국어 (Korean) Português (Portuguese) Русский (Russian) Українська (Ukrainian) 中文 (Chinese)
Search
Docs Home Helm 4 Overview Full Changelog Introduction
Introduction to Helm Quickstart Guide Installing Helm Using Helm Cheat Sheet How-to
Topics
Best Practices
Chart Template Guide
Plugins
Helm Commands
Go SDK
Glossary
Docs Introduction Quickstart Guide Version: 4.3.0 On this page
Quickstart Guide
This guide covers how you can quickly get started using Helm.
Prerequisites ​
The following prerequisites are required for a successful and properly secured
use of Helm.
A Kubernetes cluster
Deciding what security configurations to apply to your installation, if any
Installing and configuring Helm.
Install Kubernetes or have access to a cluster ​
You must have Kubernetes installed. For the latest release of Helm, we
recommend the latest stable release of Kubernetes, which in most cases is the
second-latest minor release.
You should also have a local configured copy of kubectl .
See the Helm Version Support Policy for the maximum version skew supported between Helm and Kubernetes.
Install Helm ​
Download a binary release of the Helm client. You can use tools like homebrew ,
or look at the official releases page .
For more details, or for other options, see the installation guide .
Find Charts to Install ​
Artifact Hub is the best place to discover Helm charts. It aggregates charts from hundreds of repositories and provides search, metadata, and security information.
Popular chart sources include:
OCI registries : Many organizations publish charts to container registries like GitHub Container Registry, Docker Hub, or cloud provider registries. You can install these directly with the oci:// prefix.
Chart repositories : Traditional Helm repositories can be added with helm repo add and searched with helm search repo .
To search Artifact Hub from the command line:
$ helm search hub podinfo
URL CHART VERSION APP VERSION DESCRIPTION
https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/podinfo/po... 6.11.2 6.11.2 Podinfo Helm chart for Kubernetes
Install a Chart from an OCI Registry ​
Helm can install charts directly from OCI-compliant container registries. This approach doesn't require adding a repository first.
To install a chart from an OCI registry, use the oci:// prefix:
$ helm install my-podinfo oci://ghcr.io/stefanprodan/charts/podinfo --version 6.11.2
Pulled: ghcr.io/stefanprodan/charts/podinfo:6.11.2
NAME: my-podinfo
LAST DEPLOYED: Sat May 3 12:05:00 2026
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
NOTES: ...
To verify the installation works, forward the service port and test the endpoint:
$ kubectl port-forward svc/my-podinfo 9898:9898 &
$ curl http://localhost:9898
{
"hostname": "podinfo-6f89b4c6b5-xvwtb",
"version": "6.7.1",
"message": "greetings from podinfo v6.7.1",
"goos": "linux",
"goarch": "amd64",
...
}
You can preview what a chart contains before installing:
$ helm show chart oci://ghcr.io/stefanprodan/charts/podinfo --version 6.11.2
For more details on working with OCI registries, see Use OCI-based registries .
Learn About Releases ​
It's easy to see what has been released using Helm:
$ helm list
NAME NAMESPACE REVISION UPDATED STATUS CHART APP VERSION
my-podinfo default 1 2026-05-03 12:05:00.000000 +0000 UTC deployed podinfo-6.11.2 6.7.1
The helm list (or helm ls ) function will show you a list of all deployed releases.
Uninstall a Release ​
To uninstall a release, use the helm uninstall command:
$ helm uninstall my-podinfo
release "my-podinfo" uninstalled
This will uninstall my-podinfo from Kubernetes, which will remove all
resources associated with the release as well as the release history.
If the flag --keep-history is provided, release history will be kept. You will
be able to request information about that release:
$ helm status my-podinfo
Status: UNINSTALLED
...
Because Helm tracks your releases even after you've uninstalled them, you can
audit a cluster's history, and even undelete a release (with helm rollback ).
Reading the Help Text ​
To learn more about the available Helm commands, use helm help or type a
command followed by the -h flag:
$ helm get -h
Edit this page
Previous
Introduction to Helm
Next
Installing Helm
Prerequisites Install Kubernetes or have access to a cluster Install Helm Find Charts to Install Install a Chart from an OCI Registry Learn About Releases Uninstall a Release Reading the Help Text
Helm Project
Source code Blog Events Code of Conduct
Charts
Introduction Chart tips & tricks Developing Charts Search 800+ Charts
Development
Slack (#helm-dev) Contribution Guide Maintainers Weekly Meetings
Community
GitHub Community Slack (#helm-users) Stack Overflow X
We are a Cloud Native Computing Foundation graduated project. © Helm Authors 2026. Documentation distributed under CC-BY-4.0. © 2026 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved. The Linux Foundation has registered trademarks and uses trademarks. For a list of trademarks of The Linux Foundation, please see our Trademark Usage page .