Resource Management for Pods and Containers | Kubernetes
Kubernetes Documentation
Kubernetes Blog
Training
Careers
Partners
Community
Versions Release Information
v1.37
v1.36
v1.35
v1.34
v1.33
English 中文 (Chinese)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
Português (Portuguese)
Español (Spanish)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
বাংলা (Bengali)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
فارسی (Persian)
Polski (Polish)
Русский (Russian)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Light
Dark
Auto
KubeCon + CloudNativeCon North America 2026
Join us for four days of incredible opportunities to collaborate, learn and share with the cloud native community.
Buy your ticket now! 9 - 12 November | Salt Lake City, Utah
Hide this notice
Resource Management for Pods and Containers
English বাংলা (Bengali)
中文 (Chinese)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
فارسی (Persian)
Kubernetes Documentation
Documentation
Available Documentation Versions
Getting started
Learning environment
Production environment
Container Runtimes
Installing Kubernetes with deployment tools
Bootstrapping clusters with kubeadm
Installing kubeadm
Troubleshooting kubeadm
Creating a cluster with kubeadm
Customizing components with the kubeadm API
Options for Highly Available Topology
Creating Highly Available Clusters with kubeadm
Set up a High Availability etcd Cluster with kubeadm
Configuring each kubelet in your cluster using kubeadm
Dual-stack support with kubeadm
Turnkey Cloud Solutions
Best practices
Considerations for large clusters
Running in multiple zones
Validate node setup
Enforcing Pod Security Standards
PKI certificates and requirements
Concepts
Overview
Kubernetes Components
Objects In Kubernetes
Kubernetes Object Management
Object Names and IDs
Labels and Selectors
Namespaces
Annotations
Field Selectors
Finalizers
Owners and Dependents
Recommended Labels
Storage Versions
The Kubernetes API
The kubectl command-line tool
Cluster Architecture
Nodes
Communication between Nodes and the Control Plane
Controllers
Leases
Cloud Controller Manager
About cgroup v2
Kubernetes Self-Healing
Garbage Collection
Mixed Version Proxy
Containers
Images
Container Environment
Runtime Class
Container Lifecycle Hooks
Container Runtime Interface (CRI)
Workloads
Pods
Pod Lifecycle
Pod Conditions
Init Containers
Sidecar Containers
Ephemeral Containers
Liveness, Readiness, and Startup Probes
Disruptions
Pod Hostname
Pod Quality of Service Classes
Scheduling Group
Static Pods
User Namespaces
Downward API
Advanced Pod Configuration
Workload API
Pod Group Disruption and Priority
PodGroup Scheduling Policies
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Scheduling Building Block APIs and the workloadbuilder Library
Workload Management
Deployments
ReplicaSet
StatefulSets
DaemonSet
Jobs
Automatic Cleanup for Finished Jobs
CronJob
ReplicationController
CompositePodGroup API
CompositePodGroup Lifecycle
PodGroup API
PodGroup Lifecycle
Managing Workloads
Autoscaling Workloads
Horizontal Pod Autoscaling
Vertical Pod Autoscaling
Services, Load Balancing, and Networking
Service
Ingress
Ingress Controllers
Gateway API
EndpointSlices
Network Policies
DNS for Services and Pods
IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Topology Aware Routing
Networking on Windows
Service ClusterIP allocation
Service Internal Traffic Policy
Storage
Volumes
Persistent Volumes
Projected Volumes
Ephemeral Volumes
Storage Classes
Volume Attributes Classes
Dynamic Volume Provisioning
Volume Snapshots
Volume Snapshot Classes
CSI Volume Cloning
Volume Populators and Data Sources
Storage Capacity
Node-specific Volume Limits
Local ephemeral storage
Volume Health Monitoring
Windows Storage
Configuration
ConfigMaps
Secrets
Resource Management for Pods and Containers
Organizing Cluster Access Using kubeconfig Files
Resource Management for Windows nodes
Security
Cloud Native Security
Pod Security Standards
Pod Security Admission
Service Accounts
Pod Security Policies
Security For Linux Nodes
Security For Windows Nodes
Controlling Access to the Kubernetes API
Role Based Access Control Good Practices
Good practices for Kubernetes Secrets
Multi-tenancy
Hardening Guide - Authentication Mechanisms
Hardening Guide - Dynamic Resource Allocation
Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration
Kubernetes API Server Bypass Risks
Linux kernel security constraints for Pods and containers
Security Checklist
Application Security Checklist
Policies
Limit Ranges
Resource Quotas
Process ID Limits And Reservations
Scheduling, Preemption and Eviction
Kubernetes Scheduler
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Assigning Pods to Nodes
Pod Overhead
Pod Scheduling Readiness
Pod Topology Spread Constraints
Taints and Tolerations
Scheduling Framework
Gang Scheduling
Scheduler Performance Tuning
PodGroup Scheduling
Resource Bin Packing
Workload-Aware Preemption
Pod Priority and Preemption
Node-pressure Eviction
API-initiated Eviction
Node Declared Features
Resource Management
Resource managers
Dynamic Resource Allocation
DRA API Objects
How DRA Works
Observability of Dynamic Resources
DRA Features
Device Taints and Tolerations
Pod-level resource managers
Cluster Administration
Node Shutdowns
Swap memory management
Node Autoscaling
Certificates
Cluster Networking
Observability
Admission Webhook Good Practices
Good practices for Dynamic Resource Allocation as a Cluster Admin
Logging Architecture
Compatibility Version For Kubernetes Control Plane Components
Metrics For Kubernetes System Components
Metrics for Kubernetes Object States
System Logs
Traces For Kubernetes System Components
Proxies in Kubernetes
API Priority and Fairness
Installing Addons
Coordinated Leader Election
Windows in Kubernetes
Windows containers in Kubernetes
Guide for Running Windows Containers in Kubernetes
Extending Kubernetes
Compute, Storage, and Networking Extensions
Network Plugins
Device Plugins
Extending the Kubernetes API
Custom Resources
Kubernetes API Aggregation Layer
Operator pattern
Tasks
Install Tools
Install and Set Up kubectl on Linux
Install and Set Up kubectl on macOS
Install and Set Up kubectl on Windows
Administer a Cluster
Administration with kubeadm
Adding Linux worker nodes
Adding Windows worker nodes
Upgrading kubeadm clusters
Upgrading Linux nodes
Upgrading Windows nodes
Certificate Management with kubeadm
Reconfiguring a kubeadm cluster
Changing The Kubernetes Package Repository
Overprovision Node Capacity For A Cluster
Migrating from dockershim
Changing the Container Runtime on a Node from Docker Engine to containerd
Find Out What Container Runtime is Used on a Node
Troubleshooting CNI plugin-related errors
Check whether dockershim removal affects you
Migrating telemetry and security agents from dockershim
Generate Certificates Manually
Manage Memory, CPU, and API Resources
Configure Default Memory Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Default CPU Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum Memory Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum CPU Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Memory and CPU Quotas for a Namespace
Configure a Pod Quota for a Namespace
Install a Network Policy Provider
Use Antrea for NetworkPolicy
Use Calico for NetworkPolicy
Use Cilium for NetworkPolicy
Use Kube-router for NetworkPolicy
Access Clusters Using the Kubernetes API
Enable Or Disable Feature Gates
Advertise Extended Resources for a Node
Autoscale the DNS Service in a Cluster
Change the Access Mode of a PersistentVolume to ReadWriteOncePod
Change the default StorageClass
Switching from Polling to CRI Event-based Updates to Container Status
Change the Reclaim Policy of a PersistentVolume
Cloud Controller Manager Administration
Configure a kubelet image credential provider
Configure Quotas for API Objects
Control CPU Management Policies on the Node
Control Memory Management Policies on a Node
Control Topology Management Policies on a node
Customizing DNS Service
Debugging DNS Resolution
Declare Network Policy
Developing Cloud Controller Manager
Enable Or Disable A Kubernetes API
Encrypting Confidential Data at Rest
Decrypt Confidential Data that is Already Encrypted at Rest
Guaranteed Scheduling For Critical Add-On Pods
IP Masquerade Agent User Guide
Limit Storage Consumption
Migrate Replicated Control Plane To Use Cloud Controller Manager
Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes
Reserve Compute Resources for System Daemons
Running Kubernetes Node Components as a Non-root User
Safely Drain a Node
Securing a Cluster
Harden Dynamic Resource Allocation in Your Cluster
Set Kubelet Parameters Via A Configuration File
Share a Cluster with Namespaces
Upgrade A Cluster
Use Cascading Deletion in a Cluster
Using a KMS provider for data encryption
Using CoreDNS for Service Discovery
Using NodeLocal DNSCache in Kubernetes Clusters
Using sysctls in a Kubernetes Cluster
Verify Signed Kubernetes Artifacts
Configure Pods and Containers
Assign Memory Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign CPU Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign Devices to Pods and Containers
Set Up DRA in a Cluster
Allocate Devices to Workloads with DRA
Access DRA Device Metadata
Assign Pod-level CPU and memory resources
Configure GMSA for Windows Pods and containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Pods
Configure RunAsUserName for Windows pods and containers
Create a Windows HostProcess Pod
Configure Quality of Service for Pods
Assign Extended Resources to a Container
Configure a Pod to Use a Volume for Storage
Configure a Pod to Use a Projected Volume for Storage
Configure a Security Context for a Pod or Container
Configure Service Accounts for Pods
Pull an Image from a Private Registry
Configure Liveness, Readiness and Startup Probes
Assign Pods to Nodes
Assign Pods to Nodes using Node Affinity
Configure Pod Initialization
Attach Handlers to Container Lifecycle Events
Configure a Pod to Use a ConfigMap
Share Process Namespace between Containers in a Pod
Use a User Namespace With a Pod
Use an Image Volume With a Pod
Set Permissions on an emptyDir Volume
Set Bind Mount Options on Volume Mounts
Create static Pods
Translate a Docker Compose File to Kubernetes Resources
Enforce Pod Security Standards by Configuring the Built-in Admission Controller
Enforce Pod Security Standards with Namespace Labels
Migrate from PodSecurityPolicy to the Built-In PodSecurity Admission Controller
Monitoring, Logging, and Debugging
Logging in Kubernetes
Monitoring in Kubernetes
Troubleshooting Applications
Debug Pods
Debug Services
Debug a StatefulSet
Determine the Reason for Pod Failure
Debug Init Containers
Debug Running Pods
Get a Shell to a Running Container
Troubleshooting Clusters
Troubleshooting kubectl
Resource metrics pipeline
Tools for Monitoring Resources
Monitor Node Health
Debugging Kubernetes nodes with crictl
Troubleshooting Topology Management
Auditing
Debugging Kubernetes Nodes With Kubectl
Developing and debugging services locally using telepresence
Windows debugging tips
Manage Kubernetes Objects
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Kustomize
Managing Kubernetes Objects Using Imperative Commands
Imperative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Update API Objects in Place Using kubectl patch
Migrate Kubernetes Objects Using Storage Version Migration
Managing Secrets
Managing Secrets using kubectl
Managing Secrets using Configuration File
Managing Secrets using Kustomize
Inject Data Into Applications
Define a Command and Arguments for a Container
Define Dependent Environment Variables
Define Environment Variables for a Container
Define Environment Variable Values Using An Init Container
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Environment Variables
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Files
Distribute Credentials Securely Using Secrets
Run Applications
Run a Stateless Application Using a Deployment
Horizontal Manual Scaling for a Deployment
Update a Deployment Without Downtime
Run a Single-Instance Stateful Application
Run a Replicated Stateful Application
Scale a StatefulSet
Delete a StatefulSet
Force Delete StatefulSet Pods
HorizontalPodAutoscaler Walkthrough
Specifying a Disruption Budget for your Application
Accessing the Kubernetes API from a Pod
Run Jobs
Running Automated Tasks with a CronJob
Coarse Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Fine Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Indexed Job for Parallel Processing with Static Work Assignment
Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication
Parallel Processing using Expansions
Handling retriable and non-retriable pod failures with Pod failure policy
Access Applications in a Cluster
Deploy and Access the Kubernetes Dashboard
Accessing Clusters
Configure Access to Multiple Clusters
Use Port Forwarding to Access Applications in a Cluster
Use a Service to Access an Application in a Cluster
Connect a Frontend to a Backend Using Services
Create an External Load Balancer
List All Container Images Running in a Cluster
Communicate Between Containers in the Same Pod Using a Shared Volume
Configure DNS for a Cluster
Access Services Running on Clusters
Extend Kubernetes
Configure the Aggregation Layer
Use Custom Resources
Extend the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions
Versions in CustomResourceDefinitions
Set up an Extension API Server
Configure Multiple Schedulers
Use an HTTP Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Use a SOCKS5 Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Set up Konnectivity service
TLS
Issue a Certificate for a Kubernetes API Client Using a CertificateSigningRequest
Configure Certificate Rotation for the Kubelet
Manage TLS Certificates in a Cluster
Manual Rotation of CA Certificates
Manage Cluster Daemons
Building a Basic DaemonSet
Perform a Rolling Update on a DaemonSet
Perform a Rollback on a DaemonSet
Running Pods on Only Some Nodes
Networking
Adding entries to Pod /etc/hosts with HostAliases
Extend Service IP Ranges
Kubernetes Default ServiceCIDR Reconfiguration
Validate IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Extend kubectl with plugins
Manage HugePages
Schedule GPUs
Tutorials
Hello Minikube
Learn Kubernetes Basics
Create a Cluster
Using Minikube to Create a Cluster
Deploy an App
Using kubectl to Create a Deployment
Explore Your App
Viewing Pods and Nodes
Expose Your App Publicly
Using a Service to Expose Your App
Scale Your App
Running Multiple Instances of Your App
Update Your App
Performing a Rolling Update
Configuration
Updating Configuration via a ConfigMap
Configuring Redis using a ConfigMap
Adopting Sidecar Containers
Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage
Security
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Cluster Level
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Namespace Level
Restrict a Container's Access to Resources with AppArmor
Restrict a Container's Syscalls with seccomp
Stateless Applications
Deploy a Release Using a Canary Deployment
Exposing an External IP Address to Access an Application in a Cluster
Example: Deploying PHP Guestbook application with Redis
Stateful Applications
StatefulSet Basics
Example: Deploying WordPress and MySQL with Persistent Volumes
Example: Deploying Cassandra with a StatefulSet
Running ZooKeeper, A Distributed System Coordinator
Cluster Management
Running Kubelet in Standalone Mode
Configuring swap memory on Kubernetes nodes
Use Pod-Level Resources with kubelet Resource Managers
Install Drivers and Allocate Devices with DRA
Explore Validating and Mutating Admission Policies
Namespaces Walkthrough
Services
Connecting Applications with Services
Using Source IP
Explore Termination Behavior for Pods And Their Endpoints
Reference
Glossary
API Overview
Declarative API Validation
Kubernetes API Concepts
Server-Side Apply
Client Libraries
Common Expression Language in Kubernetes
Deprecated API Migration Guide
Kubernetes API health endpoints
API Access Control
Authenticating
Authenticating with Bootstrap Tokens
Authorization
Using RBAC Authorization
Using Node Authorization
Webhook Mode
Using ABAC Authorization
Admission Control
Dynamic Admission Control
Managing Service Accounts
User Impersonation
Certificates and Certificate Signing Requests
Mapping PodSecurityPolicies to Pod Security Standards
Kubelet authentication/authorization
TLS bootstrapping
Manifest-Based Admission Control
Mutating Admission Policy
Validating Admission Policy
Kubernetes Deprecation Policy
Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints
Audit Annotations
Kubernetes API
API Groups
Admissionregistration
MutatingAdmissionPolicy
MutatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
MutatingWebhookConfiguration
ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
ValidatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
Apiextensions
CustomResourceDefinition
Apiregistration
APIService
Apiserverinternal
StorageVersion
Apps
ControllerRevision
DaemonSet
Deployment
ReplicaSet
StatefulSet
Autoscaling
HorizontalPodAutoscaler
Batch
CronJob
Job
Certificates
CertificateSigningRequest
ClusterTrustBundle
PodCertificateRequest
Coordination
Lease
LeaseCandidate
Discovery
EndpointSlice
Events
Event
Core
ComponentStatus
ConfigMap
Endpoints
Event
LimitRange
Namespace
Node
PersistentVolume
PersistentVolumeClaim
Pod
PodTemplate
ReplicationController
ResourceQuota
Secret
Service
ServiceAccount
Flowcontrol
FlowSchema
PriorityLevelConfiguration
Lifecycle
Eviction
EvictionRequest
Networking
IPAddress
Ingress
IngressClass
NetworkPolicy
ServiceCIDR
Node
RuntimeClass
Policy
PodDisruptionBudget
Rbac
ClusterRole
ClusterRoleBinding
Role
RoleBinding
Resource
DeviceClass
DeviceTaintRule
ResourceClaim
ResourceClaimTemplate
ResourcePoolStatusRequest
ResourceSlice
Scheduling
CompositePodGroup
PodGroup
PriorityClass
Workload
Storage
CSIDriver
CSINode
CSIStorageCapacity
StorageClass
VolumeAttachment
VolumeAttributesClass
Storagemigration
StorageVersionMigration
Instrumentation
Service Level Indicator Metrics
CRI Pod & Container Metrics
Native Histograms
Node metrics data
Understand Pressure Stall Information (PSI) Metrics
Kubernetes z-pages
Kubernetes Metrics Reference
Kubernetes Issues and Security
Kubernetes Issue Tracker
Kubernetes Security and Disclosure Information
CVE feed
Node Reference Information
Kubelet Checkpoint API
Linux Kernel Version Requirements
Standard Device Attributes for Dynamic Resource Allocation
Articles on dockershim Removal and on Using CRI-compatible Runtimes
Kubelet Pods API
Pod-level resource managers reference
Node Labels Populated By The Kubelet
Kubelet Sync Loop
Local Files And Paths Used By The Kubelet
Kubelet Configuration Directory Merging
Kubelet Device Manager API Versions
Kubelet Systemd Watchdog
Node Status
Seccomp and Kubernetes
What Happens After A Node Restart
Linux Node Swap Behaviors
Networking Reference
Protocols for Services
Ports and Protocols
Virtual IPs and Service Proxies
Setup tools
Kubeadm
kubeadm init
kubeadm join
kubeadm upgrade
kubeadm upgrade phases
kubeadm config
kubeadm reset
kubeadm token
kubeadm version
kubeadm alpha
kubeadm certs
kubeadm init phase
kubeadm join phase
kubeadm kubeconfig
kubeadm reset phase
Implementation details
Command line tool (kubectl)
Introduction to kubectl
kubectl Quick Reference
kubectl reference
kubectl
kubectl annotate
kubectl api-resources
kubectl api-versions
kubectl apply
kubectl apply edit-last-applied
kubectl apply set-last-applied
kubectl apply view-last-applied
kubectl attach
kubectl auth
kubectl auth can-i
kubectl auth reconcile
kubectl auth whoami
kubectl autoscale
kubectl certificate
kubectl certificate approve
kubectl certificate deny
kubectl cluster-info
kubectl cluster-info dump
kubectl completion
kubectl config
kubectl config current-context
kubectl config delete-cluster
kubectl config delete-context
kubectl config delete-user
kubectl config get-clusters
kubectl config get-contexts
kubectl config get-users
kubectl config rename-context
kubectl config set
kubectl config set-cluster
kubectl config set-context
kubectl config set-credentials
kubectl config unset
kubectl config use-context
kubectl config view
kubectl cordon
kubectl cp
kubectl create
kubectl create clusterrole
kubectl create clusterrolebinding
kubectl create configmap
kubectl create cronjob
kubectl create deployment
kubectl create ingress
kubectl create job
kubectl create namespace
kubectl create poddisruptionbudget
kubectl create priorityclass
kubectl create quota
kubectl create role
kubectl create rolebinding
kubectl create secret
kubectl create secret docker-registry
kubectl create secret generic
kubectl create secret tls
kubectl create service
kubectl create service clusterip
kubectl create service externalname
kubectl create service loadbalancer
kubectl create service nodeport
kubectl create serviceaccount
kubectl create token
kubectl debug
kubectl delete
kubectl describe
kubectl diff
kubectl drain
kubectl edit
kubectl events
kubectl exec
kubectl explain
kubectl expose
kubectl get
kubectl kuberc
kubectl kuberc set
kubectl kuberc view
kubectl kustomize
kubectl label
kubectl logs
kubectl options
kubectl patch
kubectl plugin
kubectl plugin list
kubectl port-forward
kubectl proxy
kubectl replace
kubectl rollout
kubectl rollout history
kubectl rollout pause
kubectl rollout restart
kubectl rollout resume
kubectl rollout status
kubectl rollout undo
kubectl run
kubectl scale
kubectl set
kubectl set env
kubectl set image
kubectl set resources
kubectl set selector
kubectl set serviceaccount
kubectl set subject
kubectl taint
kubectl top
kubectl top node
kubectl top pod
kubectl uncordon
kubectl version
kubectl wait
kubectl Commands
kubectl
JSONPath Support
kubectl for Docker Users
kubectl Usage Conventions
Kubectl user preferences (kuberc)
Encodings
KYAML Reference
Component tools
Feature Gates
Feature Gates (removed)
kube-apiserver
kube-controller-manager
kube-proxy
kube-scheduler
kubelet
Debug cluster
Flow control
Configuration APIs
Client Authentication (v1)
Client Authentication (v1beta1)
Event Rate Limit Configuration (v1alpha1)
Image Policy API (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Admission (v1)
kube-apiserver Audit Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1beta1)
kube-controller-manager Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-proxy Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-scheduler Configuration (v1)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta3)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta4)
kubeconfig (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1alpha1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1beta1)
Kubelet CredentialProvider (v1)
kuberc (v1alpha1)
kuberc (v1beta1)
WebhookAdmission Configuration (v1)
External APIs
Kubernetes Custom Metrics (v1beta2)
Kubernetes External Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubelet APIs
Kubelet Summary API (v1alpha1)
Scheduling
Scheduler Configuration
Scheduling Policies
Other Tools
Contribute
Contribute to Kubernetes Documentation
Contributing to Kubernetes blogs
Submitting articles to Kubernetes blogs
Blog guidelines
Blog article mirroring
Post-release communications
Helping as a blog writing buddy
Suggesting content improvements
Contributing new content
Opening a pull request
Previewing locally
Documenting for a release
Case studies
Reviewing changes
Reviewing pull requests
For approvers and reviewers
Localizing Kubernetes documentation
Participating in SIG Docs
Roles and responsibilities
Issue Wranglers
PR wranglers
Documentation style overview
Content guide
Style guide
Diagram guide
Writing a new topic
Page content types
Content organization
Custom Hugo Shortcodes
Updating Reference Documentation
Quickstart
Release generation
Contributing to the Upstream Kubernetes Code
Generating Reference Documentation for the Kubernetes API
Generating Reference Documentation for Configuration APIs
Generating Reference Documentation for kubectl Commands
Generating Reference Documentation for Metrics
Generating Reference Pages for Kubernetes Components and Tools
Advanced contributing
Viewing Site Analytics
Docs smoke test page
Edit this page
Create child page
Create an issue
Print entire section
Requests and limits
Resource types Huge pages
Resource requests and limits of Pod and container
Pod-level resource specification
Resource units in Kubernetes CPU resource units
Memory resource units
Container resources example
Pod resources example
How Pods with resource requests are scheduled
How Kubernetes applies resource requests and limits Resizing container resources
Monitoring compute & memory resource usage
Considerations for memory backed emptyDir volumes
Local ephemeral storage Resource monitoring for local ephemeral storage
Extended resources Managing extended resources
Consuming extended resources
PID limiting
Troubleshooting My Pods are pending with event message FailedScheduling
My container is terminated
What's next
Kubernetes Documentation
Concepts
Configuration
Resource Management for Pods and Containers
Resource Management for Pods and Containers
When you specify a Pod , you can optionally specify how much of each resource a
container needs. The most common resources to specify are CPU and memory
(RAM); there are others.
When you specify the resource request for containers in a Pod, the
kube-scheduler uses this information to decide which node to place the Pod on.
When you specify a resource limit for a container, the kubelet enforces those
limits so that the running container is not allowed to use more of that resource
than the limit you set. The kubelet also reserves at least the request amount of
that system resource specifically for that container to use.
Requests and limits
If the node where a Pod is running has enough of a resource available, it's possible (and
allowed) for a container to use more resource than its request for that resource specifies.
For example, if you set a memory request of 256 MiB for a container, and that container is in
a Pod scheduled to a Node with 8GiB of memory and no other Pods, then the container can try to use
more RAM.
Limits are a different story. Both cpu and memory limits are applied by the kubelet (and
container runtime ),
and are ultimately enforced by the kernel. On Linux nodes, the Linux kernel
enforces limits with
cgroups .
The behavior of cpu and memory limit enforcement is slightly different.
cpu limits are enforced by CPU throttling. When a container approaches
its cpu limit, the kernel will restrict access to the CPU corresponding to the
container's limit. Thus, a cpu limit is a hard limit the kernel enforces.
Containers may not use more CPU than is specified in their cpu limit.
memory limits are enforced by the kernel with out of memory (OOM) kills. When
a container uses more than its memory limit, the kernel may terminate it. However,
terminations only happen when the kernel detects memory pressure. Thus, a
container that over allocates memory may not be immediately killed. This means
memory limits are enforced reactively. A container may use more memory than
its memory limit, but if it does, it may get killed.
Note:
There is a feature MemoryQoS which adds memory throttling and optional
tiered memory reservation on Linux nodes using cgroup v2. For details, see
Memory QoS with cgroup v2 .
Note:
If you specify a limit for a resource, but do not specify any request, and no admission-time
mechanism has applied a default request for that resource, then Kubernetes copies the limit
you specified and uses it as the requested value for the resource.
Resource types
A resource type has a base unit and can be requested, limited, or both.
Kubernetes has the following built-in resource types:
Resource type
Description
Base unit
cpu
Compute processing
cpu (core)
memory
RAM
Bytes
ephemeral-storage
Local ephemeral storage
Bytes
hugepages-
Huge pages (Linux only)
Bytes
Clusters can also provide
extended resources
(resources with a custom name, typically exposed by device plugins).
Huge pages
For Linux workloads, you can specify huge page resources.
Huge pages are a Linux-specific feature where the node kernel allocates blocks of memory
that are much larger than the default page size.
For example, on a system where the default page size is 4KiB, you could specify a limit,
hugepages-2Mi: 80Mi . If the container tries allocating over 40 2MiB huge pages (a
total of 80 MiB), that allocation fails.
Note:
You cannot overcommit hugepages-* resources.
This is different from the memory and cpu resources.
CPU and memory are collectively referred to as compute resources , or resources . Compute
resources are measurable quantities that can be requested, allocated, and
consumed. They are distinct from
API resources . API resources, such as Pods and
Services are objects that can be read and modified
through the Kubernetes API server.
Resource requests and limits of Pod and container
For each container, you can specify resource limits and requests,
including the following:
spec.containers[].resources.limits.cpu
spec.containers[].resources.limits.memory
spec.containers[].resources.limits.ephemeral-storage
spec.containers[].resources.limits.hugepages-
spec.containers[].resources.requests.cpu
spec.containers[].resources.requests.memory
spec.containers[].resources.requests.ephemeral-storage
spec.containers[].resources.requests.hugepages-
Although you can only specify requests and limits for individual containers,
it is also useful to think about the overall resource requests and limits for
a Pod.
For a particular resource, a Pod resource request/limit is the sum of the
resource requests/limits of that type for each container in the Pod.
Pod-level resource specification
Feature state:
Beta since Kubernetes v1.34; enabled by default
Provided your cluster has the PodLevelResources
feature gate enabled,
you can specify resource requests and limits at
the Pod level. At the Pod level, Kubernetes 1.37
only supports resource requests or limits for specific resource types: cpu and /
or memory and / or hugepages . With this feature, Kubernetes allows you to declare an overall resource
budget for the Pod, which is especially helpful when dealing with a large number of
containers where it can be difficult to accurately gauge individual resource needs.
Additionally, it enables containers within a Pod to share idle resources with each
other, improving resource utilization.
For a Pod, you can specify resource limits and requests for CPU and memory by including the following:
spec.resources.limits.cpu
spec.resources.limits.memory
spec.resources.limits.hugepages-
spec.resources.requests.cpu
spec.resources.requests.memory
spec.resources.requests.hugepages-
Resource units in Kubernetes
CPU resource units
Limits and requests for CPU resources are measured in cpu units.
In Kubernetes, 1 CPU unit is equivalent to 1 physical CPU core ,
or 1 virtual core , depending on whether the node is a physical host
or a virtual machine running inside a physical machine.
Fractional requests are allowed. When you define a container with
spec.containers[].resources.requests.cpu set to 0.5 , you are requesting half
as much CPU time compared to if you asked for 1.0 CPU.
For CPU resource units, the quantity expression 0.1 is equivalent to the
expression 100m , which can be read as "one hundred millicpu". Some people say
"one hundred millicores", and this is understood to mean the same thing.
CPU resource is always specified as an absolute amount of resource, never as a relative amount. For example,
500m CPU represents the roughly same amount of computing power whether that container
runs on a single-core, dual-core, or 48-core machine.
Note:
Kubernetes doesn't allow you to specify CPU resources with a precision finer than
1m or 0.001 CPU. To avoid accidentally using an invalid CPU quantity, it's useful to specify CPU units using the milliCPU form
instead of the decimal form when using less than 1 CPU unit.
For example, you have a Pod that uses 5m or 0.005 CPU and would like to decrease
its CPU resources. By using the decimal form, it's harder to spot that 0.0005 CPU
is an invalid value, while by using the milliCPU form, it's easier to spot that
0.5m is an invalid value.
Memory resource units
Limits and requests for memory are measured in bytes. You can express memory as
a plain integer or as a fixed-point number using one of these
quantity suffixes:
E, P, T, G, M, k. You can also use the power-of-two equivalents: Ei, Pi, Ti, Gi,
Mi, Ki. The Kubernetes API also allows m as a suffix (for millibytes: 1/1000 of a byte),
but this isn't useful to specify: you must always assign whole numbers of bytes, or sometimes larger chunks such as multiples of 1 gibibyte.
Here are some examples of memory quantities that represent roughly the same value:
128974848, 129e6, 129M, 128974848000m, 123Mi
Pay attention to the case of the suffixes. "M" means megabytes, while "m" means millibytes. If you request 400m of memory, this is a request for 0.4 bytes. Someone who types that probably meant to ask for 400 mebibytes ( 400Mi )
or 400 megabytes ( 400M ).
Container resources example
The following Pod has two containers. Both containers are defined with a request for
0.25 CPU
and 64MiB (2 26 bytes) of memory. Each container has a limit of 0.5
CPU and 128MiB of memory. You can say the Pod has a request of 0.5 CPU and 128
MiB of memory, and a limit of 1 CPU and 256MiB of memory.
---
apiVersion : v1
kind : Pod
metadata :
name : frontend
spec :
containers :
- name : app
image : images.my-company.example/app:v4
resources :
requests :
memory : "64Mi"
cpu : "250m"
limits :
memory : "128Mi"
cpu : "500m"
- name : log-aggregator
image : images.my-company.example/log-aggregator:v6
resources :
requests :
memory : "64Mi"
cpu : "250m"
limits :
memory : "128Mi"
cpu : "500m"
Pod resources example
Feature state:
Beta since Kubernetes v1.34; enabled by default
This feature can be enabled by setting the PodLevelResources
feature gate .
The following Pod has an explicit request of 1 CPU and 100 MiB of memory, and an
explicit limit of 1 CPU and 200 MiB of memory. The pod-resources-demo-ctr-1
container has explicit requests and limits set. However, the
pod-resources-demo-ctr-2 container will simply share the resources available
within the Pod resource boundaries, as it does not have explicit requests and limits
set.
pods/resource/pod-level-resources.yaml
apiVersion : v1
kind : Pod
metadata :
name : pod-resources-demo
namespace : pod-resources-example
spec :
resources :
limits :
cpu : "1"
memory : "200Mi"
requests :
cpu : "1"
memory : "100Mi"
containers :
- name : pod-resources-demo-ctr-1
image : nginx
resources :
limits :
cpu : "0.5"
memory : "100Mi"
requests :
cpu : "0.5"
memory : "50Mi"
- name : pod-resources-demo-ctr-2
image : fedora
command :
- sleep
- inf
How Pods with resource requests are scheduled
When you create a Pod, the Kubernetes scheduler selects a node for the Pod to
run on. Each node has a maximum capacity for each of the resource types: the
amount of CPU and memory it can provide for Pods. The scheduler ensures that,
for each resource type, the sum of the resource requests of the scheduled
containers is less than the capacity of the node.
Note that although actual memory
or CPU resource usage on nodes is very low, the scheduler still refuses to place
a Pod on a node if the capacity check fails. This protects against a resource
shortage on a node when resource usage later increases, for example, during a
daily peak in request rate.
How Kubernetes applies resource requests and limits
When the kubelet starts a container as part of a Pod, the kubelet passes that container's
requests and limits for memory and CPU to the container runtime.
On Linux, the container runtime typically configures
kernel cgroups that apply and enforce the
limits you defined.
The CPU limit defines a hard ceiling on how much CPU time the container can use.
During each scheduling interval (time slice), the Linux kernel checks to see if this
limit is exceeded; if so, the kernel waits before allowing that cgroup to resume execution.
The CPU request typically defines a weighting. If several different containers (cgroups)
want to run on a contended system, workloads with larger CPU requests are allocated more
CPU time than workloads with small requests.
The memory request is mainly used during (Kubernetes) Pod scheduling. On a node that uses
cgroups v2, the container runtime might use the memory request as a hint to set
memory.min and memory.low .
The memory limit defines a memory limit for that cgroup. If the container tries to
allocate more memory than this limit, the Linux kernel out-of-memory subsystem activates
and, typically, intervenes by stopping one of the processes in the container that tried
to allocate memory. If that process is the container's PID 1, and the container is marked
as restartable, Kubernetes restarts the container.
The memory limit for the Pod or container can also apply to pages in memory backed
volumes, such as an emptyDir . The kubelet tracks tmpfs emptyDir volumes as container
memory use, rather than as local ephemeral storage .
When using memory backed emptyDir ,
be sure to check the notes below .
If a container exceeds its memory request and the node that it runs on becomes short of
memory overall, it is likely that the Pod the container belongs to will be
evicted .
A container might or might not be allowed to exceed its CPU limit for extended periods of time.
However, container runtimes don't terminate Pods or containers for excessive CPU usage.
To determine whether a container cannot be scheduled or is being killed due to resource limits,
see the Troubleshooting section.
Resizing container resources
After creating a Pod, you may need to adjust its CPU or memory resources based on
actual usage patterns. Kubernetes provides two approaches for resizing Pod resources:
In-place resize
Feature state:
Stable since Kubernetes v1.35
More information about this feature This is a stable feature in Kubernetes, and has been since version v1.35. It was first available in the v1.27 release. You can no longer disable or opt out of this feature or behavior (it is locked); if you explicitly set a value for the associated feature gate InPlacePodVerticalScaling , Kubernetes ignores it but does not report any error.
You can modify the CPU and memory requests and limits of containers
in a running Pod without recreating it. This is called in-place Pod vertical scaling
or in-place Pod resize . To perform an in-place resize, update the container's resource
specifications using the Pod's /resize subresource. You can control whether a container
restart is required by setting the resizePolicy field in the container specification.
Note:
In-place resize currently applies to container-level resources. For resizing Pod-level
resources, see Resize Pod CPU and Memory Resources .
Note:

Feature state:

Alpha since Kubernetes v1.37; disabled by default

More information about this feature
To use this feature, you (or a cluster administrator) will need to enable the InPlacePodVerticalScalingSchedulerPreemption feature gate for all relevant components in your cluster.

See Enable Or Disable Feature Gates for more information.

When the InPlacePodVerticalScalingSchedulerPreemption feature gate is enabled,
deferred in-place resize requests can trigger kube-scheduler to preempt
lower-priority Pods on the assigned node to make room for the resize.
For more details, see
Preemption for in-place Pod resize .
Resizing by launching replacement Pods
The cloud native approach to changing a Pod's resources is to update the Pod template
in the workload object (such as a Deployment or StatefulSet) and let the workload's
controller replace Pods with new ones that have the updated resources. This approach
works with any Kubernetes version and can change any Pod specification.
For more details about Pod resizing, see Resizing Pods .
For detailed instructions on in-place resize, see
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers .
You can also use the Vertical Pod Autoscaler
to automatically manage Pod resource recommendations.
Monitoring compute & memory resource usage
The kubelet reports the resource usage of a Pod as part of the Pod
status .
If optional tools for monitoring
are available in your cluster, then Pod resource usage can be retrieved either
from the Metrics API
directly or from your monitoring tools.
Considerations for memory backed emptyDir volumes
Note:

Feature state:

Alpha since Kubernetes v1.37; disabled by default

More information about this feature
To use this feature, you (or a cluster administrator) will need to enable the InPlacePodVerticalScalingMemoryBackedVolumes feature gate for all relevant components in your cluster.

See Enable Or Disable Feature Gates for more information.

When the InPlacePodVerticalScalingMemoryBackedVolumes feature gate is enabled, you can dynamically adjust the sizeLimit of a memory-backed ( medium: Memory ) emptyDir volume on a running Pod without requiring Pod recreation or container restarts. For step-by-step instructions, see Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers .
Caution:
If you do not specify a sizeLimit for an emptyDir volume, that volume may
consume up to that pod's memory limit ( Pod.spec.containers[].resources.limits.memory ).
If you do not set a memory limit, the pod has no upper bound on memory consumption,
and can consume all available memory on the node. Kubernetes schedules pods based
on resource requests ( Pod.spec.containers[].resources.requests ) and will not
consider memory usage above the request when deciding if another pod can fit on
a given node. This can result in a denial of service and cause the OS to do
out-of-memory (OOM) handling. It is possible to create any number of emptyDir s
that could potentially consume all available memory on the node, making OOM
more likely.
From the perspective of memory management, there are some similarities between
when a process uses memory as a work area and when using memory-backed
emptyDir . But when using memory as a volume, like memory-backed emptyDir ,
there are additional points below that you should be careful of:
Files stored on a memory-backed volume are almost entirely managed by the
user application. Unlike when used as a work area for a process, you can not
rely on things like language-level garbage collection.
The purpose of writing files to a volume is to save data or pass it between
applications. Neither Kubernetes nor the OS may automatically delete files
from a volume, so memory used by those files can not be reclaimed when the
system or the pod are under memory pressure.
A memory-backed emptyDir is useful because of its performance, but memory
is generally much smaller in size and much higher in cost than other storage
media, such as disks or SSDs. Using large amounts of memory for emptyDir
volumes may affect the normal operation of your pod or of the whole node,
so should be used carefully.
If you are administering a cluster or namespace, you can also set
ResourceQuota that limits memory use;
you may also want to define a LimitRange
for additional enforcement.
If you specify a spec.containers[].resources.limits.memory for each Pod,
then the maximum size of an emptyDir volume will be the pod's memory limit.
As an alternative, a cluster administrator can enforce size limits for
emptyDir volumes in new Pods using a policy mechanism such as
ValidatingAdmissionPolicy .
Local ephemeral storage
For general concepts about local ephemeral storage and hints about
configuring the requests and/or limits of ephemeral storage for a container,
please check the local ephemeral storage
page.
Resource monitoring for local ephemeral storage
The kubelet can measure how much local ephemeral storage is being used. It
does this as long as you have enabled local ephemeral storage capacity isolation.
Kubernetes tracks the amount of ephemeral storage a Pod uses from the following:
Writing to the container's writable layer (rootfs), container images, or both.
Writing to local emptyDir volumes.
The Pod's own logs (usually stored under /var/log/pods ).
System files managed by Kubernetes that are mapped into the Pod, such as /etc/hosts .
Extended resources
Extended resources are fully-qualified resource names outside the
kubernetes.io domain. They allow cluster operators to advertise and users to
consume the non-Kubernetes-built-in resources.
There are two steps required to use Extended Resources. First, the cluster
operator must advertise an Extended Resource. Second, users must request the
Extended Resource in Pods.
Managing extended resources
Node-level extended resources
Node-level extended resources are tied to nodes.
Device plugin managed resources
See Device
Plugin
for how to advertise device plugin managed resources on each node.
Other resources
To advertise a new node-level extended resource, the cluster operator can
submit a PATCH HTTP request to the API server to specify the available
quantity in the status.capacity for a node in the cluster. After this
operation, the node's status.capacity will include a new resource. The
status.allocatable field is updated automatically with the new resource
asynchronously by the kubelet.
Because the scheduler uses the node's status.allocatable value when
evaluating Pod fitness, the scheduler only takes account of the new value after
that asynchronous update. There may be a short delay between patching the
node capacity with a new resource and the time when the first Pod that requests
the resource can be scheduled on that node.
Example:
Here is an example showing how to use curl to form an HTTP request that
advertises five "example.com/foo" resources on node k8s-node-1 whose master
is k8s-master .
curl --header "Content-Type: application/json-patch+json" \
--request PATCH \
--data '[{"op": "add", "path": "/status/capacity/example.com~1foo", "value": "5"}]' \
http://k8s-master:8080/api/v1/nodes/k8s-node-1/status
Note:
In the preceding request, ~1 is the encoding for the character /
in the patch path. The operation path value in JSON-Patch is interpreted as a
JSON-Pointer. For more details, see
IETF RFC 6901, section 3 .
Cluster-level extended resources
Cluster-level extended resources are not tied to nodes. They are usually managed
by scheduler extenders, which handle the resource consumption and resource quota.
You can specify the extended resources that are handled by scheduler extenders
in scheduler configuration
Example:
The following configuration for a scheduler policy indicates that the
cluster-level extended resource "example.com/foo" is handled by the scheduler
extender.
The scheduler sends a Pod to the scheduler extender only if the Pod requests
"example.com/foo".
The ignoredByScheduler field specifies that the scheduler does not check
the "example.com/foo" resource in its PodFitsResources predicate.
{
"kind" : "Policy" ,
"apiVersion" : "v1" ,
"extenders" : [
{
"urlPrefix" : " " ,
"bindVerb" : "bind" ,
"managedResources" : [
{
"name" : "example.com/foo" ,
"ignoredByScheduler" : true
}
]
}
]
}
Extended resources allocation by DRA
Extended resources allocation by DRA allows cluster administrators to specify an extendedResourceName
in DeviceClass, then the devices matching the DeviceClass can be requested from a pod's extended
resource requests. Read more about
Extended Resource allocation by DRA .
Consuming extended resources
Users can consume extended resources in Pod specs like CPU and memory.
The scheduler takes care of the resource accounting so that no more than the
available amount is simultaneously allocated to Pods.
The API server restricts quantities of extended resources to whole numbers.
Examples of valid quantities are 3 , 3000m and 3Ki . Examples of
invalid quantities are 0.5 and 1500m (because 1500m would result in 1.5 ).
Note:
Extended resources replace Opaque Integer Resources.
Users can use any domain name prefix other than kubernetes.io which is reserved.
To consume an extended resource in a Pod, include the resource name as a key
in the spec.containers[].resources.limits map in the container spec.
Note:
Extended resources cannot be overcommitted, so request and limit
must be equal if both are present in a container spec.
A Pod is scheduled only if all of the resource requests are satisfied, including
CPU, memory and any extended resources. The Pod remains in the PENDING state
as long as the resource request cannot be satisfied.
Example:
The Pod below requests 2 CPUs and 1 "example.com/foo" (an extended resource).
apiVersion : v1
kind : Pod
metadata :
name : my-pod
spec :
containers :
- name : my-container
image : myimage
resources :
requests :
cpu : 2
example.com/foo : 1
limits :
example.com/foo : 1
PID limiting
Process ID (PID) limits allow for the configuration of a kubelet
to limit the number of PIDs that a given Pod can consume. See
PID Limiting for information.
Troubleshooting
My Pods are pending with event message FailedScheduling
If the scheduler cannot find any node where a Pod can fit, the Pod remains
unscheduled until a place can be found. An
Event is produced
each time the scheduler fails to find a place for the Pod. You can use kubectl
to view the events for a Pod; for example:
kubectl describe pod frontend | grep -A 9999999999 Events
Events:
Type Reason Age From Message
---- ------ ---- ---- -------
Warning FailedScheduling 23s default-scheduler 0/42 nodes available: insufficient cpu
In the preceding example, the Pod named "frontend" fails to be scheduled due to
insufficient CPU resource on any node. Similar error messages can also suggest
failure due to insufficient memory (PodExceedsFreeMemory). In general, if a Pod
is pending with a message of this type, there are several things to try:
Add more nodes to the cluster.
Terminate unneeded Pods to make room for pending Pods.
Check that the Pod is not larger than all the nodes. For example, if all the
nodes have a capacity of cpu: 1 , then a Pod with a request of cpu: 1.1 will
never be scheduled.
Check for node taints. If most of your nodes are tainted, and the new Pod does
not tolerate that taint, the scheduler only considers placements onto the
remaining nodes that don't have that taint.
You can check node capacities and amounts allocated with the
kubectl describe nodes command. For example:
kubectl describe nodes e2e-test-node-pool-4lw4
Name: e2e-test-node-pool-4lw4
[ ... lines removed for clarity ...]
Capacity:
cpu: 2
memory: 7679792Ki
pods: 110
Allocatable:
cpu: 1800m
memory: 7474992Ki
pods: 110
[ ... lines removed for clarity ...]
Non-terminated Pods: (5 in total)
Namespace Name CPU Requests CPU Limits Memory Requests Memory Limits
--------- ---- ------------ ---------- --------------- -------------
kube-system fluentd-gcp-v1.38-28bv1 100m (5%) 0 (0%) 200Mi (2%) 200Mi (2%)
kube-system coredns-3297075139-61lj3 260m (13%) 0 (0%) 100Mi (1%) 170Mi (2%)
kube-system kube-proxy-e2e-test-... 100m (5%) 0 (0%) 0 (0%) 0 (0%)
kube-system monitoring-influxdb-grafana-v4-z1m12 200m (10%) 200m (10%) 600Mi (8%) 600Mi (8%)
kube-system node-problem-detector-v0.1-fj7m3 20m (1%) 200m (10%) 20Mi (0%) 100Mi (1%)
Allocated resources:
(Total limits may be over 100 percent, i.e., overcommitted.)
CPU Requests CPU Limits Memory Requests Memory Limits
------------ ---------- --------------- -------------
680m (34%) 400m (20%) 920Mi (11%) 1070Mi (13%)
In the preceding output, you can see that if a Pod requests more than 1.120 CPUs
or more than 6.23Gi of memory, that Pod will not fit on the node.
By looking at the “Pods” section, you can see which Pods are taking up space on
the node.
The amount of resources available to Pods is less than the node capacity because
system daemons use a portion of the available resources. Within the Kubernetes API,
each Node has a .status.allocatable field
(see NodeStatus
for details).
The .status.allocatable field describes the amount of resources that are available
to Pods on that node (for example: 15 virtual CPUs and 7538 MiB of memory).
For more information on node allocatable resources in Kubernetes, see
Reserve Compute Resources for System Daemons .
You can configure resource quotas
to limit the total amount of resources that a namespace can consume.
Kubernetes enforces quotas for objects in particular namespace when there is a
ResourceQuota in that namespace.
For example, if you assign specific namespaces to different teams, you
can add ResourceQuotas into those namespaces. Setting resource quotas helps to
prevent one team from using so much of any resource that this over-use affects other teams.
You should also consider what access you grant to that namespace:
full write access to a namespace allows someone with that access to remove any
resource, including a configured ResourceQuota.
My container is terminated
Your container might get terminated because it is resource-starved. To check
whether a container is being killed because it is hitting a resource limit, call
kubectl describe pod on the Pod of interest:
kubectl describe pod simmemleak-hra99
The output is similar to:
Name: simmemleak-hra99
Namespace: default
Image(s): saadali/simmemleak
Node: kubernetes-node-tf0f/10.240.216.66
Labels: name=simmemleak
Status: Running
Reason:
Message:
IP: 10.244.2.75
Containers:
simmemleak:
Image: saadali/simmemleak:latest
Limits:
cpu: 100m
memory: 50Mi
State: Running
Started: Tue, 07 Jul 2019 12:54:41 -0700
Last State: Terminated
Reason: OOMKilled
Exit Code: 137
Started: Fri, 07 Jul 2019 12:54:30 -0700
Finished: Fri, 07 Jul 2019 12:54:33 -0700
Ready: False
Restart Count: 5
Conditions:
Type Status
Ready False
Events:
Type Reason Age From Message
---- ------ ---- ---- -------
Normal Scheduled 42s default-scheduler Successfully assigned simmemleak-hra99 to kubernetes-node-tf0f
Normal Pulled 41s kubelet Container image "saadali/simmemleak:latest" already present on machine
Normal Created 41s kubelet Created container simmemleak
Normal Started 40s kubelet Started container simmemleak
Normal Killing 32s kubelet Killing container with id ead3fb35-5cf5-44ed-9ae1-488115be66c6: Need to kill Pod
In the preceding example, the Restart Count: 5 indicates that the simmemleak
container in the Pod was terminated and restarted five times (so far).
The OOMKilled reason shows that the container tried to use more memory than its limit.
Your next step might be to check the application code for a memory leak. If you
find that the application is behaving how you expect, consider setting a higher
memory limit (and possibly request) for that container.
What's next
Get hands-on experience assigning Memory resources to containers and Pods .
Get hands-on experience assigning CPU resources to containers and Pods .
Read how the API reference defines a container
and its resource requirements
Read more about the local ephemeral storage
Read more about the kube-scheduler configuration reference (v1)
Read more about Quality of Service classes for Pods
Read more about Extended Resource allocation by DRA
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No Thanks for the feedback. If you have a specific, answerable question about how to use Kubernetes, ask it on
Stack Overflow .
Open an issue in the GitHub Repository if you want to
report a problem
or
suggest an improvement .
Last modified July 27, 2026 at 8:54 PM PST: Repoint DRA links after docs reorganization (b4811b23fd)
© 2026 The Kubernetes Authors | Documentation Distributed under CC BY 4.0
© 2026 Copyright © Kubernetes a Series of LF Projects, LLC. For website terms of use, trademark policy and other project policies please see https://lfprojects.org/policies/
ICP license: 京ICP备17074266号-3