Creating a cluster with kubeadm | Kubernetes
Kubernetes Documentation
Kubernetes Blog
Training
Careers
Partners
Community
Versions Release Information
v1.37
v1.36
v1.35
v1.34
v1.33
English 中文 (Chinese)
Français (French)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
বাংলা (Bengali)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Italiano (Italian)
فارسی (Persian)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
Light
Dark
Auto
KubeCon + CloudNativeCon North America 2026
Join us for four days of incredible opportunities to collaborate, learn and share with the cloud native community.
Buy your ticket now! 9 - 12 November | Salt Lake City, Utah
Hide this notice
Creating a cluster with kubeadm
English বাংলা (Bengali)
中文 (Chinese)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
فارسی (Persian)
Kubernetes Documentation
Documentation
Available Documentation Versions
Getting started
Learning environment
Production environment
Container Runtimes
Installing Kubernetes with deployment tools
Bootstrapping clusters with kubeadm
Installing kubeadm
Troubleshooting kubeadm
Creating a cluster with kubeadm
Customizing components with the kubeadm API
Options for Highly Available Topology
Creating Highly Available Clusters with kubeadm
Set up a High Availability etcd Cluster with kubeadm
Configuring each kubelet in your cluster using kubeadm
Dual-stack support with kubeadm
Turnkey Cloud Solutions
Best practices
Considerations for large clusters
Running in multiple zones
Validate node setup
Enforcing Pod Security Standards
PKI certificates and requirements
Concepts
Overview
Kubernetes Components
Objects In Kubernetes
Kubernetes Object Management
Object Names and IDs
Labels and Selectors
Namespaces
Annotations
Field Selectors
Finalizers
Owners and Dependents
Recommended Labels
Storage Versions
The Kubernetes API
The kubectl command-line tool
Cluster Architecture
Nodes
Communication between Nodes and the Control Plane
Controllers
Leases
Cloud Controller Manager
About cgroup v2
Kubernetes Self-Healing
Garbage Collection
Mixed Version Proxy
Containers
Images
Container Environment
Runtime Class
Container Lifecycle Hooks
Container Runtime Interface (CRI)
Workloads
Pods
Pod Lifecycle
Pod Conditions
Init Containers
Sidecar Containers
Ephemeral Containers
Liveness, Readiness, and Startup Probes
Disruptions
Pod Hostname
Pod Quality of Service Classes
Scheduling Group
Static Pods
User Namespaces
Downward API
Advanced Pod Configuration
Workload API
Pod Group Disruption and Priority
PodGroup Scheduling Policies
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Scheduling Building Block APIs and the workloadbuilder Library
Workload Management
Deployments
ReplicaSet
StatefulSets
DaemonSet
Jobs
Automatic Cleanup for Finished Jobs
CronJob
ReplicationController
CompositePodGroup API
CompositePodGroup Lifecycle
PodGroup API
PodGroup Lifecycle
Managing Workloads
Autoscaling Workloads
Horizontal Pod Autoscaling
Vertical Pod Autoscaling
Services, Load Balancing, and Networking
Service
Ingress
Ingress Controllers
Gateway API
EndpointSlices
Network Policies
DNS for Services and Pods
IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Topology Aware Routing
Networking on Windows
Service ClusterIP allocation
Service Internal Traffic Policy
Storage
Volumes
Persistent Volumes
Projected Volumes
Ephemeral Volumes
Storage Classes
Volume Attributes Classes
Dynamic Volume Provisioning
Volume Snapshots
Volume Snapshot Classes
CSI Volume Cloning
Volume Populators and Data Sources
Storage Capacity
Node-specific Volume Limits
Local ephemeral storage
Volume Health Monitoring
Windows Storage
Configuration
ConfigMaps
Secrets
Resource Management for Pods and Containers
Organizing Cluster Access Using kubeconfig Files
Resource Management for Windows nodes
Security
Cloud Native Security
Pod Security Standards
Pod Security Admission
Service Accounts
Pod Security Policies
Security For Linux Nodes
Security For Windows Nodes
Controlling Access to the Kubernetes API
Role Based Access Control Good Practices
Good practices for Kubernetes Secrets
Multi-tenancy
Hardening Guide - Authentication Mechanisms
Hardening Guide - Dynamic Resource Allocation
Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration
Kubernetes API Server Bypass Risks
Linux kernel security constraints for Pods and containers
Security Checklist
Application Security Checklist
Policies
Limit Ranges
Resource Quotas
Process ID Limits And Reservations
Scheduling, Preemption and Eviction
Kubernetes Scheduler
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Assigning Pods to Nodes
Pod Overhead
Pod Scheduling Readiness
Pod Topology Spread Constraints
Taints and Tolerations
Scheduling Framework
Gang Scheduling
Scheduler Performance Tuning
PodGroup Scheduling
Resource Bin Packing
Workload-Aware Preemption
Pod Priority and Preemption
Node-pressure Eviction
API-initiated Eviction
Node Declared Features
Resource Management
Resource managers
Dynamic Resource Allocation
DRA API Objects
How DRA Works
Observability of Dynamic Resources
DRA Features
Device Taints and Tolerations
Pod-level resource managers
Cluster Administration
Node Shutdowns
Swap memory management
Node Autoscaling
Certificates
Cluster Networking
Observability
Admission Webhook Good Practices
Good practices for Dynamic Resource Allocation as a Cluster Admin
Logging Architecture
Compatibility Version For Kubernetes Control Plane Components
Metrics For Kubernetes System Components
Metrics for Kubernetes Object States
System Logs
Traces For Kubernetes System Components
Proxies in Kubernetes
API Priority and Fairness
Installing Addons
Coordinated Leader Election
Windows in Kubernetes
Windows containers in Kubernetes
Guide for Running Windows Containers in Kubernetes
Extending Kubernetes
Compute, Storage, and Networking Extensions
Network Plugins
Device Plugins
Extending the Kubernetes API
Custom Resources
Kubernetes API Aggregation Layer
Operator pattern
Tasks
Install Tools
Install and Set Up kubectl on Linux
Install and Set Up kubectl on macOS
Install and Set Up kubectl on Windows
Administer a Cluster
Administration with kubeadm
Adding Linux worker nodes
Adding Windows worker nodes
Upgrading kubeadm clusters
Upgrading Linux nodes
Upgrading Windows nodes
Certificate Management with kubeadm
Reconfiguring a kubeadm cluster
Changing The Kubernetes Package Repository
Overprovision Node Capacity For A Cluster
Migrating from dockershim
Changing the Container Runtime on a Node from Docker Engine to containerd
Find Out What Container Runtime is Used on a Node
Troubleshooting CNI plugin-related errors
Check whether dockershim removal affects you
Migrating telemetry and security agents from dockershim
Generate Certificates Manually
Manage Memory, CPU, and API Resources
Configure Default Memory Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Default CPU Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum Memory Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum CPU Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Memory and CPU Quotas for a Namespace
Configure a Pod Quota for a Namespace
Install a Network Policy Provider
Use Antrea for NetworkPolicy
Use Calico for NetworkPolicy
Use Cilium for NetworkPolicy
Use Kube-router for NetworkPolicy
Access Clusters Using the Kubernetes API
Enable Or Disable Feature Gates
Advertise Extended Resources for a Node
Autoscale the DNS Service in a Cluster
Change the Access Mode of a PersistentVolume to ReadWriteOncePod
Change the default StorageClass
Switching from Polling to CRI Event-based Updates to Container Status
Change the Reclaim Policy of a PersistentVolume
Cloud Controller Manager Administration
Configure a kubelet image credential provider
Configure Quotas for API Objects
Control CPU Management Policies on the Node
Control Memory Management Policies on a Node
Control Topology Management Policies on a node
Customizing DNS Service
Debugging DNS Resolution
Declare Network Policy
Developing Cloud Controller Manager
Enable Or Disable A Kubernetes API
Encrypting Confidential Data at Rest
Decrypt Confidential Data that is Already Encrypted at Rest
Guaranteed Scheduling For Critical Add-On Pods
IP Masquerade Agent User Guide
Limit Storage Consumption
Migrate Replicated Control Plane To Use Cloud Controller Manager
Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes
Reserve Compute Resources for System Daemons
Running Kubernetes Node Components as a Non-root User
Safely Drain a Node
Securing a Cluster
Harden Dynamic Resource Allocation in Your Cluster
Set Kubelet Parameters Via A Configuration File
Share a Cluster with Namespaces
Upgrade A Cluster
Use Cascading Deletion in a Cluster
Using a KMS provider for data encryption
Using CoreDNS for Service Discovery
Using NodeLocal DNSCache in Kubernetes Clusters
Using sysctls in a Kubernetes Cluster
Verify Signed Kubernetes Artifacts
Configure Pods and Containers
Assign Memory Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign CPU Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign Devices to Pods and Containers
Set Up DRA in a Cluster
Allocate Devices to Workloads with DRA
Access DRA Device Metadata
Assign Pod-level CPU and memory resources
Configure GMSA for Windows Pods and containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Pods
Configure RunAsUserName for Windows pods and containers
Create a Windows HostProcess Pod
Configure Quality of Service for Pods
Assign Extended Resources to a Container
Configure a Pod to Use a Volume for Storage
Configure a Pod to Use a Projected Volume for Storage
Configure a Security Context for a Pod or Container
Configure Service Accounts for Pods
Pull an Image from a Private Registry
Configure Liveness, Readiness and Startup Probes
Assign Pods to Nodes
Assign Pods to Nodes using Node Affinity
Configure Pod Initialization
Attach Handlers to Container Lifecycle Events
Configure a Pod to Use a ConfigMap
Share Process Namespace between Containers in a Pod
Use a User Namespace With a Pod
Use an Image Volume With a Pod
Set Permissions on an emptyDir Volume
Set Bind Mount Options on Volume Mounts
Create static Pods
Translate a Docker Compose File to Kubernetes Resources
Enforce Pod Security Standards by Configuring the Built-in Admission Controller
Enforce Pod Security Standards with Namespace Labels
Migrate from PodSecurityPolicy to the Built-In PodSecurity Admission Controller
Monitoring, Logging, and Debugging
Logging in Kubernetes
Monitoring in Kubernetes
Troubleshooting Applications
Debug Pods
Debug Services
Debug a StatefulSet
Determine the Reason for Pod Failure
Debug Init Containers
Debug Running Pods
Get a Shell to a Running Container
Troubleshooting Clusters
Troubleshooting kubectl
Resource metrics pipeline
Tools for Monitoring Resources
Monitor Node Health
Debugging Kubernetes nodes with crictl
Troubleshooting Topology Management
Auditing
Debugging Kubernetes Nodes With Kubectl
Developing and debugging services locally using telepresence
Windows debugging tips
Manage Kubernetes Objects
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Kustomize
Managing Kubernetes Objects Using Imperative Commands
Imperative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Update API Objects in Place Using kubectl patch
Migrate Kubernetes Objects Using Storage Version Migration
Managing Secrets
Managing Secrets using kubectl
Managing Secrets using Configuration File
Managing Secrets using Kustomize
Inject Data Into Applications
Define a Command and Arguments for a Container
Define Dependent Environment Variables
Define Environment Variables for a Container
Define Environment Variable Values Using An Init Container
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Environment Variables
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Files
Distribute Credentials Securely Using Secrets
Run Applications
Run a Stateless Application Using a Deployment
Horizontal Manual Scaling for a Deployment
Update a Deployment Without Downtime
Run a Single-Instance Stateful Application
Run a Replicated Stateful Application
Scale a StatefulSet
Delete a StatefulSet
Force Delete StatefulSet Pods
HorizontalPodAutoscaler Walkthrough
Specifying a Disruption Budget for your Application
Accessing the Kubernetes API from a Pod
Run Jobs
Running Automated Tasks with a CronJob
Coarse Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Fine Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Indexed Job for Parallel Processing with Static Work Assignment
Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication
Parallel Processing using Expansions
Handling retriable and non-retriable pod failures with Pod failure policy
Access Applications in a Cluster
Deploy and Access the Kubernetes Dashboard
Accessing Clusters
Configure Access to Multiple Clusters
Use Port Forwarding to Access Applications in a Cluster
Use a Service to Access an Application in a Cluster
Connect a Frontend to a Backend Using Services
Create an External Load Balancer
List All Container Images Running in a Cluster
Communicate Between Containers in the Same Pod Using a Shared Volume
Configure DNS for a Cluster
Access Services Running on Clusters
Extend Kubernetes
Configure the Aggregation Layer
Use Custom Resources
Extend the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions
Versions in CustomResourceDefinitions
Set up an Extension API Server
Configure Multiple Schedulers
Use an HTTP Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Use a SOCKS5 Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Set up Konnectivity service
TLS
Issue a Certificate for a Kubernetes API Client Using a CertificateSigningRequest
Configure Certificate Rotation for the Kubelet
Manage TLS Certificates in a Cluster
Manual Rotation of CA Certificates
Manage Cluster Daemons
Building a Basic DaemonSet
Perform a Rolling Update on a DaemonSet
Perform a Rollback on a DaemonSet
Running Pods on Only Some Nodes
Networking
Adding entries to Pod /etc/hosts with HostAliases
Extend Service IP Ranges
Kubernetes Default ServiceCIDR Reconfiguration
Validate IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Extend kubectl with plugins
Manage HugePages
Schedule GPUs
Tutorials
Hello Minikube
Learn Kubernetes Basics
Create a Cluster
Using Minikube to Create a Cluster
Deploy an App
Using kubectl to Create a Deployment
Explore Your App
Viewing Pods and Nodes
Expose Your App Publicly
Using a Service to Expose Your App
Scale Your App
Running Multiple Instances of Your App
Update Your App
Performing a Rolling Update
Configuration
Updating Configuration via a ConfigMap
Configuring Redis using a ConfigMap
Adopting Sidecar Containers
Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage
Security
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Cluster Level
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Namespace Level
Restrict a Container's Access to Resources with AppArmor
Restrict a Container's Syscalls with seccomp
Stateless Applications
Deploy a Release Using a Canary Deployment
Exposing an External IP Address to Access an Application in a Cluster
Example: Deploying PHP Guestbook application with Redis
Stateful Applications
StatefulSet Basics
Example: Deploying WordPress and MySQL with Persistent Volumes
Example: Deploying Cassandra with a StatefulSet
Running ZooKeeper, A Distributed System Coordinator
Cluster Management
Running Kubelet in Standalone Mode
Configuring swap memory on Kubernetes nodes
Use Pod-Level Resources with kubelet Resource Managers
Install Drivers and Allocate Devices with DRA
Explore Validating and Mutating Admission Policies
Namespaces Walkthrough
Services
Connecting Applications with Services
Using Source IP
Explore Termination Behavior for Pods And Their Endpoints
Reference
Glossary
API Overview
Declarative API Validation
Kubernetes API Concepts
Server-Side Apply
Client Libraries
Common Expression Language in Kubernetes
Deprecated API Migration Guide
Kubernetes API health endpoints
API Access Control
Authenticating
Authenticating with Bootstrap Tokens
Authorization
Using RBAC Authorization
Using Node Authorization
Webhook Mode
Using ABAC Authorization
Admission Control
Dynamic Admission Control
Managing Service Accounts
User Impersonation
Certificates and Certificate Signing Requests
Mapping PodSecurityPolicies to Pod Security Standards
Kubelet authentication/authorization
TLS bootstrapping
Manifest-Based Admission Control
Mutating Admission Policy
Validating Admission Policy
Kubernetes Deprecation Policy
Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints
Audit Annotations
Kubernetes API
API Groups
Admissionregistration
MutatingAdmissionPolicy
MutatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
MutatingWebhookConfiguration
ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
ValidatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
Apiextensions
CustomResourceDefinition
Apiregistration
APIService
Apiserverinternal
StorageVersion
Apps
ControllerRevision
DaemonSet
Deployment
ReplicaSet
StatefulSet
Autoscaling
HorizontalPodAutoscaler
Batch
CronJob
Job
Certificates
CertificateSigningRequest
ClusterTrustBundle
PodCertificateRequest
Coordination
Lease
LeaseCandidate
Discovery
EndpointSlice
Events
Event
Core
ComponentStatus
ConfigMap
Endpoints
Event
LimitRange
Namespace
Node
PersistentVolume
PersistentVolumeClaim
Pod
PodTemplate
ReplicationController
ResourceQuota
Secret
Service
ServiceAccount
Flowcontrol
FlowSchema
PriorityLevelConfiguration
Lifecycle
Eviction
EvictionRequest
Networking
IPAddress
Ingress
IngressClass
NetworkPolicy
ServiceCIDR
Node
RuntimeClass
Policy
PodDisruptionBudget
Rbac
ClusterRole
ClusterRoleBinding
Role
RoleBinding
Resource
DeviceClass
DeviceTaintRule
ResourceClaim
ResourceClaimTemplate
ResourcePoolStatusRequest
ResourceSlice
Scheduling
CompositePodGroup
PodGroup
PriorityClass
Workload
Storage
CSIDriver
CSINode
CSIStorageCapacity
StorageClass
VolumeAttachment
VolumeAttributesClass
Storagemigration
StorageVersionMigration
Instrumentation
Service Level Indicator Metrics
CRI Pod & Container Metrics
Native Histograms
Node metrics data
Understand Pressure Stall Information (PSI) Metrics
Kubernetes z-pages
Kubernetes Metrics Reference
Kubernetes Issues and Security
Kubernetes Issue Tracker
Kubernetes Security and Disclosure Information
CVE feed
Node Reference Information
Kubelet Checkpoint API
Linux Kernel Version Requirements
Standard Device Attributes for Dynamic Resource Allocation
Articles on dockershim Removal and on Using CRI-compatible Runtimes
Kubelet Pods API
Pod-level resource managers reference
Node Labels Populated By The Kubelet
Kubelet Sync Loop
Local Files And Paths Used By The Kubelet
Kubelet Configuration Directory Merging
Kubelet Device Manager API Versions
Kubelet Systemd Watchdog
Node Status
Seccomp and Kubernetes
What Happens After A Node Restart
Linux Node Swap Behaviors
Networking Reference
Protocols for Services
Ports and Protocols
Virtual IPs and Service Proxies
Setup tools
Kubeadm
kubeadm init
kubeadm join
kubeadm upgrade
kubeadm upgrade phases
kubeadm config
kubeadm reset
kubeadm token
kubeadm version
kubeadm alpha
kubeadm certs
kubeadm init phase
kubeadm join phase
kubeadm kubeconfig
kubeadm reset phase
Implementation details
Command line tool (kubectl)
Introduction to kubectl
kubectl Quick Reference
kubectl reference
kubectl
kubectl annotate
kubectl api-resources
kubectl api-versions
kubectl apply
kubectl apply edit-last-applied
kubectl apply set-last-applied
kubectl apply view-last-applied
kubectl attach
kubectl auth
kubectl auth can-i
kubectl auth reconcile
kubectl auth whoami
kubectl autoscale
kubectl certificate
kubectl certificate approve
kubectl certificate deny
kubectl cluster-info
kubectl cluster-info dump
kubectl completion
kubectl config
kubectl config current-context
kubectl config delete-cluster
kubectl config delete-context
kubectl config delete-user
kubectl config get-clusters
kubectl config get-contexts
kubectl config get-users
kubectl config rename-context
kubectl config set
kubectl config set-cluster
kubectl config set-context
kubectl config set-credentials
kubectl config unset
kubectl config use-context
kubectl config view
kubectl cordon
kubectl cp
kubectl create
kubectl create clusterrole
kubectl create clusterrolebinding
kubectl create configmap
kubectl create cronjob
kubectl create deployment
kubectl create ingress
kubectl create job
kubectl create namespace
kubectl create poddisruptionbudget
kubectl create priorityclass
kubectl create quota
kubectl create role
kubectl create rolebinding
kubectl create secret
kubectl create secret docker-registry
kubectl create secret generic
kubectl create secret tls
kubectl create service
kubectl create service clusterip
kubectl create service externalname
kubectl create service loadbalancer
kubectl create service nodeport
kubectl create serviceaccount
kubectl create token
kubectl debug
kubectl delete
kubectl describe
kubectl diff
kubectl drain
kubectl edit
kubectl events
kubectl exec
kubectl explain
kubectl expose
kubectl get
kubectl kuberc
kubectl kuberc set
kubectl kuberc view
kubectl kustomize
kubectl label
kubectl logs
kubectl options
kubectl patch
kubectl plugin
kubectl plugin list
kubectl port-forward
kubectl proxy
kubectl replace
kubectl rollout
kubectl rollout history
kubectl rollout pause
kubectl rollout restart
kubectl rollout resume
kubectl rollout status
kubectl rollout undo
kubectl run
kubectl scale
kubectl set
kubectl set env
kubectl set image
kubectl set resources
kubectl set selector
kubectl set serviceaccount
kubectl set subject
kubectl taint
kubectl top
kubectl top node
kubectl top pod
kubectl uncordon
kubectl version
kubectl wait
kubectl Commands
kubectl
JSONPath Support
kubectl for Docker Users
kubectl Usage Conventions
Kubectl user preferences (kuberc)
Encodings
KYAML Reference
Component tools
Feature Gates
Feature Gates (removed)
kube-apiserver
kube-controller-manager
kube-proxy
kube-scheduler
kubelet
Debug cluster
Flow control
Configuration APIs
Client Authentication (v1)
Client Authentication (v1beta1)
Event Rate Limit Configuration (v1alpha1)
Image Policy API (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Admission (v1)
kube-apiserver Audit Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1beta1)
kube-controller-manager Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-proxy Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-scheduler Configuration (v1)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta3)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta4)
kubeconfig (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1alpha1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1beta1)
Kubelet CredentialProvider (v1)
kuberc (v1alpha1)
kuberc (v1beta1)
WebhookAdmission Configuration (v1)
External APIs
Kubernetes Custom Metrics (v1beta2)
Kubernetes External Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubelet APIs
Kubelet Summary API (v1alpha1)
Scheduling
Scheduler Configuration
Scheduling Policies
Other Tools
Contribute
Contribute to Kubernetes Documentation
Contributing to Kubernetes blogs
Submitting articles to Kubernetes blogs
Blog guidelines
Blog article mirroring
Post-release communications
Helping as a blog writing buddy
Suggesting content improvements
Contributing new content
Opening a pull request
Previewing locally
Documenting for a release
Case studies
Reviewing changes
Reviewing pull requests
For approvers and reviewers
Localizing Kubernetes documentation
Participating in SIG Docs
Roles and responsibilities
Issue Wranglers
PR wranglers
Documentation style overview
Content guide
Style guide
Diagram guide
Writing a new topic
Page content types
Content organization
Custom Hugo Shortcodes
Updating Reference Documentation
Quickstart
Release generation
Contributing to the Upstream Kubernetes Code
Generating Reference Documentation for the Kubernetes API
Generating Reference Documentation for Configuration APIs
Generating Reference Documentation for kubectl Commands
Generating Reference Documentation for Metrics
Generating Reference Pages for Kubernetes Components and Tools
Advanced contributing
Viewing Site Analytics
Docs smoke test page
Edit this page
Create child page
Create an issue
Print entire section
Before you begin
Objectives
Instructions Preparing the hosts
Preparing the required container images
Initializing your control-plane node
Considerations about apiserver-advertise-address and ControlPlaneEndpoint
More information
Installing a Pod network add-on
Managed node labels
Control plane node isolation
Adding more control plane nodes
Adding worker nodes
(Optional) Controlling your cluster from machines other than the control-plane node
(Optional) Proxying API Server to localhost
Clean up Remove the node
Clean up the control plane
Version skew policy kubeadm's skew against the Kubernetes version
kubeadm's skew against the kubelet
kubeadm's skew against kubeadm
Limitations Cluster resilience
Platform compatibility
Troubleshooting
What's next Feedback
Kubernetes Documentation
Getting started
Production environment
Installing Kubernetes with deployment tools
Bootstrapping clusters with kubeadm
Creating a cluster with kubeadm
Creating a cluster with kubeadm
Using kubeadm , you can create a minimum viable Kubernetes cluster that conforms to best practices.
In fact, you can use kubeadm to set up a cluster that will pass the
Kubernetes Conformance tests .
kubeadm also supports other cluster lifecycle functions, such as
bootstrap tokens and cluster upgrades.
The kubeadm tool is good if you need:
A simple way for you to try out Kubernetes, possibly for the first time.
A way for existing users to automate setting up a cluster and test their application.
A building block in other ecosystem and/or installer tools with a larger
scope.
You can install and use kubeadm on various machines: your laptop, a set
of cloud servers, a Raspberry Pi, and more. Whether you're deploying into the
cloud or on-premises, you can integrate kubeadm into provisioning systems such
as Ansible or Terraform.
Before you begin
To follow this guide, you need:
One or more machines running a deb/rpm-compatible Linux OS; for example: Ubuntu or CentOS.
2 GiB or more of RAM per machine--any less leaves little room for your apps.
At least 2 CPUs on the machine that you use as a control-plane node.
Full network connectivity among all machines in the cluster. You can use either a
public or a private network.
You also need to use a version of kubeadm that can deploy the version
of Kubernetes that you want to use in your new cluster.
Kubernetes' version and version skew support policy
applies to kubeadm as well as to Kubernetes overall.
Check that policy to learn about what versions of Kubernetes and kubeadm
are supported. This page is written for Kubernetes v1.37.
The kubeadm tool's overall feature state is General Availability (GA). Some sub-features are
still under active development. The implementation of creating the cluster may change
slightly as the tool evolves, but the overall implementation should be pretty stable.
Note:
Any commands under kubeadm alpha are, by definition, supported on an alpha level.
Objectives
Install a single control-plane Kubernetes cluster
Install a Pod network on the cluster so that your Pods can
talk to each other
Instructions
Preparing the hosts
Component installation
Install a container runtime
and kubeadm on all the hosts. For detailed instructions and other prerequisites, see
Installing kubeadm .
Note:
If you have already installed kubeadm, see the first two steps of the
Upgrading Linux nodes
document for instructions on how to upgrade kubeadm.
When you upgrade, the kubelet restarts every few seconds as it waits in a crashloop for
kubeadm to tell it what to do. This crashloop is expected and normal.
After you initialize your control-plane, the kubelet runs normally.
Network setup
kubeadm similarly to other Kubernetes components tries to find a usable IP on
the network interfaces associated with a default gateway on a host. Such
an IP is then used for the advertising and/or listening performed by a component.
To find out what this IP is on a Linux host you can use:
ip route show # Look for a line starting with "default via"
Note:
If two or more default gateways are present on the host, a Kubernetes component will
try to use the first one it encounters that has a suitable global unicast IP address.
While making this choice, the exact ordering of gateways might vary between different
operating systems and kernel versions.
Kubernetes components do not accept custom network interface as an option,
therefore a custom IP address must be passed as a flag to all components instances
that need such a custom configuration.
Note:
If the host does not have a default gateway and if a custom IP address is not passed
to a Kubernetes component, the component may exit with an error.
To configure the API server advertise address for control plane nodes created with both
init and join , the flag --apiserver-advertise-address can be used.
Preferably, this option can be set in the kubeadm API
as InitConfiguration.localAPIEndpoint and JoinConfiguration.controlPlane.localAPIEndpoint .
For kubelets on all nodes, the --node-ip option can be passed in
.nodeRegistration.kubeletExtraArgs inside a kubeadm configuration file
( InitConfiguration or JoinConfiguration ).
For dual-stack see
Dual-stack support with kubeadm .
The IP addresses that you assign to control plane components become part of their X.509 certificates'
subject alternative name fields. Changing these IP addresses would require
signing new certificates and restarting the affected components, so that the change in
certificate files is reflected. See
Manual certificate renewal
for more details on this topic.
Warning:
The Kubernetes project recommends against this approach (configuring all component instances
with custom IP addresses). Instead, the Kubernetes maintainers recommend to setup the host network,
so that the default gateway IP is the one that Kubernetes components auto-detect and use.
On Linux nodes, you can use commands such as ip route to configure networking; your operating
system might also provide higher level network management tools. If your node's default gateway
is a public IP address, you should configure packet filtering or other security measures that
protect the nodes and your cluster.
Preparing the required container images
This step is optional and only applies in case you wish kubeadm init and kubeadm join
to not download the default container images which are hosted at registry.k8s.io .
Kubeadm has commands that can help you pre-pull the required images
when creating a cluster without an internet connection on its nodes.
See Running kubeadm without an internet connection
for more details.
Kubeadm allows you to use a custom image repository for the required images.
See Using custom images
for more details.
Initializing your control-plane node
The control-plane node is the machine where the control plane components run, including
etcd (the cluster database) and the
API Server
(which the kubectl command line tool
communicates with).
(Recommended) If you have plans to upgrade this single control-plane kubeadm cluster
to high availability
you should specify the --control-plane-endpoint to set the shared endpoint for all control-plane nodes.
Such an endpoint can be either a DNS name or an IP address of a load-balancer.
Choose a Pod network add-on, and verify whether it requires any arguments to
be passed to kubeadm init . Depending on which
third-party provider you choose, you might need to set the --pod-network-cidr to
a provider-specific value. See Installing a Pod network add-on .
(Optional) kubeadm tries to detect the container runtime by using a list of well
known endpoints. To use different container runtime or if there are more than one installed
on the provisioned node, specify the --cri-socket argument to kubeadm . See
Installing a runtime .
To initialize the control-plane node run:
kubeadm init <args>
Considerations about apiserver-advertise-address and ControlPlaneEndpoint
While --apiserver-advertise-address can be used to set the advertised address for this particular
control-plane node's API server, --control-plane-endpoint can be used to set the shared endpoint
for all control-plane nodes.
--control-plane-endpoint allows both IP addresses and DNS names that can map to IP addresses.
Please contact your network administrator to evaluate possible solutions with respect to such mapping.
Here is an example mapping:
192.168.0.102 cluster-endpoint
Where 192.168.0.102 is the IP address of this node and cluster-endpoint is a custom DNS name that maps to this IP.
This will allow you to pass --control-plane-endpoint=cluster-endpoint to kubeadm init and pass the same DNS name to
kubeadm join . Later you can modify cluster-endpoint to point to the address of your load-balancer in a
high availability scenario.
Turning a single control plane cluster created without --control-plane-endpoint into a highly available cluster
is not supported by kubeadm.
More information
For more information about kubeadm init arguments, see the kubeadm reference guide .
To configure kubeadm init with a configuration file see
Using kubeadm init with a configuration file .
To customize control plane components, including optional IPv6 assignment to liveness probe
for control plane components and etcd server, provide extra arguments to each component as documented in
custom arguments .
To reconfigure a cluster that has already been created see
Reconfiguring a kubeadm cluster .
To run kubeadm init again, you must first tear down the cluster .
If you join a node with a different architecture to your cluster, make sure that your deployed DaemonSets
have container image support for this architecture.
kubeadm init first runs a series of prechecks to ensure that the machine
is ready to run Kubernetes. These prechecks expose warnings and exit on errors. kubeadm init
then downloads and installs the cluster control plane components. This may take several minutes.
After it finishes you should see:
Your Kubernetes control-plane has initialized successfully!
To start using your cluster, you need to run the following as a regular user:
mkdir -p $HOME/.kube
sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf $HOME/.kube/config
sudo chown $(id -u):$(id -g) $HOME/.kube/config
You should now deploy a Pod network to the cluster.
Run "kubectl apply -f [podnetwork].yaml" with one of the options listed at:
/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/addons/
You can now join any number of machines by running the following on each node
as root:
kubeadm join <control-plane-host>:<control-plane-port> --token <token> --discovery-token-ca-cert-hash sha256:<hash>
To make kubectl work for your non-root user, run these commands, which are
also part of the kubeadm init output:
mkdir -p $HOME /.kube
sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf $HOME /.kube/config
sudo chown $( id -u ) : $( id -g ) $HOME /.kube/config
Alternatively, if you are the root user, you can run:
export KUBECONFIG = /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf
Warning:
The kubeconfig file admin.conf that kubeadm init generates contains a certificate with
Subject: O = kubeadm:cluster-admins, CN = kubernetes-admin . The group kubeadm:cluster-admins
is bound to the built-in cluster-admin ClusterRole.
Do not share the admin.conf file with anyone.
kubeadm init generates another kubeconfig file super-admin.conf that contains a certificate with
Subject: O = system:masters, CN = kubernetes-super-admin .
system:masters is a break-glass, super user group that bypasses the authorization layer (for example RBAC).
Do not share the super-admin.conf file with anyone. It is recommended to move the file to a safe location.
See
Generating kubeconfig files for additional users
on how to use kubeadm kubeconfig user to generate kubeconfig files for additional users.
Make a record of the kubeadm join command that kubeadm init outputs. You
need this command to join nodes to your cluster .
The token is used for mutual authentication between the control-plane node and the joining
nodes. The token included here is secret. Keep it safe, because anyone with this
token can add authenticated nodes to your cluster. These tokens can be listed,
created, and deleted with the kubeadm token command. See the
kubeadm reference guide .
Installing a Pod network add-on
Caution:
This section contains important information about networking setup and
deployment order.
Read all of this advice carefully before proceeding.
You must deploy a
Container Network Interface
(CNI) based Pod network add-on so that your Pods can communicate with each other.
Cluster DNS (CoreDNS) will not start up before a network is installed.
Take care that your Pod network must not overlap with any of the host
networks: you are likely to see problems if there is any overlap.
(If you find a collision between your network plugin's preferred Pod
network and some of your host networks, you should think of a suitable
CIDR block to use instead, then use that during kubeadm init with
--pod-network-cidr and as a replacement in your network plugin's YAML).
By default, kubeadm sets up your cluster to use and enforce use of
RBAC (role based access
control).
Make sure that your Pod network plugin supports RBAC, and so do any manifests
that you use to deploy it.
If you want to use IPv6--either dual-stack, or single-stack IPv6 only
networking--for your cluster, make sure that your Pod network plugin
supports IPv6.
IPv6 support was added to CNI in v0.6.0 .
Note:
Kubeadm should be CNI agnostic and the validation of CNI providers is out of the scope of our current e2e testing.
If you find an issue related to a CNI plugin you should log a ticket in its respective issue
tracker instead of the kubeadm or kubernetes issue trackers.
Several external projects provide Kubernetes Pod networks using CNI, some of which also
support Network Policy .
See a list of add-ons that implement the
Kubernetes networking model .
Please refer to the Installing Addons
page for a non-exhaustive list of networking addons supported by Kubernetes.
You can install a Pod network add-on with the following command on the
control-plane node or a node that has the kubeconfig credentials:
kubectl apply -f <add-on.yaml>
Note:
Only a few CNI plugins support Windows. More details and setup instructions can be found
in Adding Windows worker nodes .
You can install only one Pod network per cluster.
Once a Pod network has been installed, you can confirm that it is working by
checking that the CoreDNS Pod is Running in the output of kubectl get pods --all-namespaces .
And once the CoreDNS Pod is up and running, you can continue by joining your nodes.
If your network is not working or CoreDNS is not in the Running state, check out the
troubleshooting guide
for kubeadm .
Managed node labels
By default, kubeadm enables the NodeRestriction
admission controller that restricts what labels can be self-applied by kubelets on node registration.
The admission controller documentation covers what labels are permitted to be used with the kubelet
--node-labels option.
Caution:
Because of the NodeRestriction admission controller, you cannot use the kubelet
--node-labels flag to apply restricted labels (such as node-role.kubernetes.io/* ) during initialization.
If you attempt to add restricted labels by using this kubelet flag, the node will fail to register
with the API server.
To apply these labels manually, you must use kubectl label after the node has joined the cluster.
Ensure you are using a privileged kubeconfig, such as the kubeadm-managed /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf .
Control plane node isolation
By default, your cluster will not schedule Pods on the control plane nodes for security
reasons. If you want to be able to schedule Pods on the control plane nodes,
for example for a single machine Kubernetes cluster, run:
kubectl taint nodes --all node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane-
The output will look something like:
node "test-01" untainted
...
This will remove the node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane:NoSchedule taint
from any nodes that have it, including the control plane nodes, meaning that the
scheduler will then be able to schedule Pods everywhere.
Additionally, you can execute the following command to remove the
node.kubernetes.io/exclude-from-external-load-balancers label
from the control plane node, which excludes it from the list of backend servers:
kubectl label nodes --all node.kubernetes.io/exclude-from-external-load-balancers-
Adding more control plane nodes
See Creating Highly Available Clusters with kubeadm
for steps on creating a high availability kubeadm cluster by adding more control plane nodes.
Adding worker nodes
The worker nodes are where your workloads run.
The following pages show how to add Linux and Windows worker nodes to the cluster by using
the kubeadm join command:
Adding Linux worker nodes
Adding Windows worker nodes
(Optional) Controlling your cluster from machines other than the control-plane node
In order to get a kubectl on some other computer (e.g. laptop) to talk to your
cluster, you need to copy the administrator kubeconfig file from your control-plane node
to your workstation like this:
scp root@<control-plane-host>:/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf .
kubectl --kubeconfig ./admin.conf get nodes
Note:
The example above assumes SSH access is enabled for root. If that is not the
case, you can copy the admin.conf file to be accessible by some other user
and scp using that other user instead.
The admin.conf file gives the user superuser privileges over the cluster.
This file should be used sparingly. For normal users, it's recommended to
generate a unique credential to which you grant privileges. You can do
this with the kubeadm kubeconfig user --client-name <CN>
command. That command will print out a KubeConfig file to STDOUT which you
should save to a file and distribute to your user. After that, grant
privileges by using kubectl create (cluster)rolebinding .
(Optional) Proxying API Server to localhost
If you want to connect to the API Server from outside the cluster, you can use
kubectl proxy :
scp root@<control-plane-host>:/etc/kubernetes/admin.conf .
kubectl --kubeconfig ./admin.conf proxy
You can now access the API Server locally at http://localhost:8001/api/v1
Clean up
If you used disposable servers for your cluster, for testing, you can
switch those off and do no further clean up. You can use
kubectl config delete-cluster to delete your local references to the
cluster.
However, if you want to deprovision your cluster more cleanly, you should
first drain the node
and make sure that the node is empty, then deconfigure the node.
Remove the node
Talking to the control-plane node with the appropriate credentials, run:
kubectl drain <node name> --delete-emptydir-data --force --ignore-daemonsets
Before removing the node, reset the state installed by kubeadm :
kubeadm reset
The reset process does not reset or clean up iptables rules or IPVS tables.
If you wish to reset iptables, you must do so manually:
iptables -F && iptables -t nat -F && iptables -t mangle -F && iptables -X
If you want to reset the IPVS tables, you must run the following command:
ipvsadm -C
Now remove the node:
kubectl delete node <node name>
If you wish to start over, run kubeadm init or kubeadm join with the
appropriate arguments.
Clean up the control plane
You can use kubeadm reset on the control plane host to trigger a best-effort
clean up.
See the kubeadm reset
reference documentation for more information about this subcommand and its
options.
Version skew policy
While kubeadm allows version skew against some components that it manages, it is recommended that you
match the kubeadm version with the versions of the control plane components, kube-proxy and kubelet.
kubeadm's skew against the Kubernetes version
kubeadm can be used with Kubernetes components that are the same version as kubeadm
or one version older. The Kubernetes version can be specified to kubeadm by using the
--kubernetes-version flag of kubeadm init or the
ClusterConfiguration.kubernetesVersion
field when using --config . This option will control the versions
of kube-apiserver, kube-controller-manager, kube-scheduler and kube-proxy.
Example:
kubeadm is at 1.37
kubernetesVersion must be at 1.37 or 1.36
kubeadm's skew against the kubelet
Similarly to the Kubernetes version, kubeadm can be used with a kubelet version that is
the same version as kubeadm or three versions older.
Example:
kubeadm is at 1.37
kubelet on the host must be at 1.37, 1.36,
1.35 or 1.34
kubeadm's skew against kubeadm
There are certain limitations on how kubeadm commands can operate on existing nodes or whole clusters
managed by kubeadm.
If new nodes are joined to the cluster, the kubeadm binary used for kubeadm join must match
the last version of kubeadm used to either create the cluster with kubeadm init or to upgrade
the same node with kubeadm upgrade . Similar rules apply to the rest of the kubeadm commands
with the exception of kubeadm upgrade .
Example for kubeadm join :
kubeadm version 1.37 was used to create a cluster with kubeadm init
Joining nodes must use a kubeadm binary that is at version 1.37
Nodes that are being upgraded must use a version of kubeadm that is the same MINOR
version or one MINOR version newer than the version of kubeadm used for managing the
node.
Example for kubeadm upgrade :
kubeadm version 1.36 was used to create or upgrade the node
The version of kubeadm used for upgrading the node must be at 1.36
or 1.37
To learn more about the version skew between the different Kubernetes component see
the Version Skew Policy .
Limitations
Cluster resilience
The cluster created here has a single control-plane node, with a single etcd database
running on it. This means that if the control-plane node fails, your cluster may lose
data and may need to be recreated from scratch.
Workarounds:
Regularly back up etcd . The
etcd data directory configured by kubeadm is at /var/lib/etcd on the control-plane node.
Use multiple control-plane nodes. You can read
Options for Highly Available topology to pick a cluster
topology that provides high-availability .
Platform compatibility
kubeadm deb/rpm packages and binaries are built for amd64, arm (32-bit), arm64, ppc64le, and s390x
following the multi-platform proposal .
Multiplatform container images for the control plane and addons are also supported since v1.12.
Only some of the network providers offer solutions for all platforms. Please consult the list of
network providers above or the documentation from each provider to figure out whether the provider
supports your chosen platform.
Troubleshooting
If you are running into difficulties with kubeadm, please consult our
troubleshooting docs .
What's next
Verify that your cluster is running properly with Sonobuoy
See Upgrading kubeadm clusters
for details about upgrading your cluster using kubeadm .
Learn about advanced kubeadm usage in the kubeadm reference documentation
Learn more about Kubernetes concepts and kubectl .
See the Cluster Networking page for a bigger list
of Pod network add-ons.
See the list of add-ons to
explore other add-ons, including tools for logging, monitoring, network policy, visualization &
control of your Kubernetes cluster.
Configure how your cluster handles logs for cluster events and from
applications running in Pods.
See Logging Architecture for
an overview of what is involved.
Feedback
For bugs, visit the kubeadm GitHub issue tracker
For support, visit the
#kubeadm Slack channel
General SIG Cluster Lifecycle development Slack channel:
#sig-cluster-lifecycle
SIG Cluster Lifecycle SIG information
SIG Cluster Lifecycle mailing list:
kubernetes-sig-cluster-lifecycle
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No Thanks for the feedback. If you have a specific, answerable question about how to use Kubernetes, ask it on
Stack Overflow .
Open an issue in the GitHub Repository if you want to
report a problem
or
suggest an improvement .
Last modified September 01, 2026 at 12:01 PM PST: Fix repeated words and misspellings in English docs (172426e45f)
© 2026 The Kubernetes Authors | Documentation Distributed under CC BY 4.0
© 2026 Copyright © Kubernetes a Series of LF Projects, LLC. For website terms of use, trademark policy and other project policies please see https://lfprojects.org/policies/
ICP license: 京ICP备17074266号-3