Custom Resources | Kubernetes
Kubernetes Documentation
Kubernetes Blog
Training
Careers
Partners
Community
Versions Release Information
v1.37
v1.36
v1.35
v1.34
v1.33
English 中文 (Chinese)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
বাংলা (Bengali)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Italiano (Italian)
فارسی (Persian)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
Light
Dark
Auto
KubeCon + CloudNativeCon North America 2026
Join us for four days of incredible opportunities to collaborate, learn and share with the cloud native community.
Buy your ticket now! 9 - 12 November | Salt Lake City, Utah
Hide this notice
Custom Resources
English বাংলা (Bengali)
中文 (Chinese)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
فارسی (Persian)
Kubernetes Documentation
Documentation
Available Documentation Versions
Getting started
Learning environment
Production environment
Container Runtimes
Installing Kubernetes with deployment tools
Bootstrapping clusters with kubeadm
Installing kubeadm
Troubleshooting kubeadm
Creating a cluster with kubeadm
Customizing components with the kubeadm API
Options for Highly Available Topology
Creating Highly Available Clusters with kubeadm
Set up a High Availability etcd Cluster with kubeadm
Configuring each kubelet in your cluster using kubeadm
Dual-stack support with kubeadm
Turnkey Cloud Solutions
Best practices
Considerations for large clusters
Running in multiple zones
Validate node setup
Enforcing Pod Security Standards
PKI certificates and requirements
Concepts
Overview
Kubernetes Components
Objects In Kubernetes
Kubernetes Object Management
Object Names and IDs
Labels and Selectors
Namespaces
Annotations
Field Selectors
Finalizers
Owners and Dependents
Recommended Labels
Storage Versions
The Kubernetes API
The kubectl command-line tool
Cluster Architecture
Nodes
Communication between Nodes and the Control Plane
Controllers
Leases
Cloud Controller Manager
About cgroup v2
Kubernetes Self-Healing
Garbage Collection
Mixed Version Proxy
Containers
Images
Container Environment
Runtime Class
Container Lifecycle Hooks
Container Runtime Interface (CRI)
Workloads
Pods
Pod Lifecycle
Pod Conditions
Init Containers
Sidecar Containers
Ephemeral Containers
Liveness, Readiness, and Startup Probes
Disruptions
Pod Hostname
Pod Quality of Service Classes
Scheduling Group
Static Pods
User Namespaces
Downward API
Advanced Pod Configuration
Workload API
Pod Group Disruption and Priority
PodGroup Scheduling Policies
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Scheduling Building Block APIs and the workloadbuilder Library
Workload Management
Deployments
ReplicaSet
StatefulSets
DaemonSet
Jobs
Automatic Cleanup for Finished Jobs
CronJob
ReplicationController
CompositePodGroup API
CompositePodGroup Lifecycle
PodGroup API
PodGroup Lifecycle
Managing Workloads
Autoscaling Workloads
Horizontal Pod Autoscaling
Vertical Pod Autoscaling
Services, Load Balancing, and Networking
Service
Ingress
Ingress Controllers
Gateway API
EndpointSlices
Network Policies
DNS for Services and Pods
IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Topology Aware Routing
Networking on Windows
Service ClusterIP allocation
Service Internal Traffic Policy
Storage
Volumes
Persistent Volumes
Projected Volumes
Ephemeral Volumes
Storage Classes
Volume Attributes Classes
Dynamic Volume Provisioning
Volume Snapshots
Volume Snapshot Classes
CSI Volume Cloning
Volume Populators and Data Sources
Storage Capacity
Node-specific Volume Limits
Local ephemeral storage
Volume Health Monitoring
Windows Storage
Configuration
ConfigMaps
Secrets
Resource Management for Pods and Containers
Organizing Cluster Access Using kubeconfig Files
Resource Management for Windows nodes
Security
Cloud Native Security
Pod Security Standards
Pod Security Admission
Service Accounts
Pod Security Policies
Security For Linux Nodes
Security For Windows Nodes
Controlling Access to the Kubernetes API
Role Based Access Control Good Practices
Good practices for Kubernetes Secrets
Multi-tenancy
Hardening Guide - Authentication Mechanisms
Hardening Guide - Dynamic Resource Allocation
Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration
Kubernetes API Server Bypass Risks
Linux kernel security constraints for Pods and containers
Security Checklist
Application Security Checklist
Policies
Limit Ranges
Resource Quotas
Process ID Limits And Reservations
Scheduling, Preemption and Eviction
Kubernetes Scheduler
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Assigning Pods to Nodes
Pod Overhead
Pod Scheduling Readiness
Pod Topology Spread Constraints
Taints and Tolerations
Scheduling Framework
Gang Scheduling
Scheduler Performance Tuning
PodGroup Scheduling
Resource Bin Packing
Workload-Aware Preemption
Pod Priority and Preemption
Node-pressure Eviction
API-initiated Eviction
Node Declared Features
Resource Management
Resource managers
Dynamic Resource Allocation
DRA API Objects
How DRA Works
Observability of Dynamic Resources
DRA Features
Device Taints and Tolerations
Pod-level resource managers
Cluster Administration
Node Shutdowns
Swap memory management
Node Autoscaling
Certificates
Cluster Networking
Observability
Admission Webhook Good Practices
Good practices for Dynamic Resource Allocation as a Cluster Admin
Logging Architecture
Compatibility Version For Kubernetes Control Plane Components
Metrics For Kubernetes System Components
Metrics for Kubernetes Object States
System Logs
Traces For Kubernetes System Components
Proxies in Kubernetes
API Priority and Fairness
Installing Addons
Coordinated Leader Election
Windows in Kubernetes
Windows containers in Kubernetes
Guide for Running Windows Containers in Kubernetes
Extending Kubernetes
Compute, Storage, and Networking Extensions
Network Plugins
Device Plugins
Extending the Kubernetes API
Custom Resources
Kubernetes API Aggregation Layer
Operator pattern
Tasks
Install Tools
Install and Set Up kubectl on Linux
Install and Set Up kubectl on macOS
Install and Set Up kubectl on Windows
Administer a Cluster
Administration with kubeadm
Adding Linux worker nodes
Adding Windows worker nodes
Upgrading kubeadm clusters
Upgrading Linux nodes
Upgrading Windows nodes
Certificate Management with kubeadm
Reconfiguring a kubeadm cluster
Changing The Kubernetes Package Repository
Overprovision Node Capacity For A Cluster
Migrating from dockershim
Changing the Container Runtime on a Node from Docker Engine to containerd
Find Out What Container Runtime is Used on a Node
Troubleshooting CNI plugin-related errors
Check whether dockershim removal affects you
Migrating telemetry and security agents from dockershim
Generate Certificates Manually
Manage Memory, CPU, and API Resources
Configure Default Memory Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Default CPU Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum Memory Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum CPU Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Memory and CPU Quotas for a Namespace
Configure a Pod Quota for a Namespace
Install a Network Policy Provider
Use Antrea for NetworkPolicy
Use Calico for NetworkPolicy
Use Cilium for NetworkPolicy
Use Kube-router for NetworkPolicy
Access Clusters Using the Kubernetes API
Enable Or Disable Feature Gates
Advertise Extended Resources for a Node
Autoscale the DNS Service in a Cluster
Change the Access Mode of a PersistentVolume to ReadWriteOncePod
Change the default StorageClass
Switching from Polling to CRI Event-based Updates to Container Status
Change the Reclaim Policy of a PersistentVolume
Cloud Controller Manager Administration
Configure a kubelet image credential provider
Configure Quotas for API Objects
Control CPU Management Policies on the Node
Control Memory Management Policies on a Node
Control Topology Management Policies on a node
Customizing DNS Service
Debugging DNS Resolution
Declare Network Policy
Developing Cloud Controller Manager
Enable Or Disable A Kubernetes API
Encrypting Confidential Data at Rest
Decrypt Confidential Data that is Already Encrypted at Rest
Guaranteed Scheduling For Critical Add-On Pods
IP Masquerade Agent User Guide
Limit Storage Consumption
Migrate Replicated Control Plane To Use Cloud Controller Manager
Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes
Reserve Compute Resources for System Daemons
Running Kubernetes Node Components as a Non-root User
Safely Drain a Node
Securing a Cluster
Harden Dynamic Resource Allocation in Your Cluster
Set Kubelet Parameters Via A Configuration File
Share a Cluster with Namespaces
Upgrade A Cluster
Use Cascading Deletion in a Cluster
Using a KMS provider for data encryption
Using CoreDNS for Service Discovery
Using NodeLocal DNSCache in Kubernetes Clusters
Using sysctls in a Kubernetes Cluster
Verify Signed Kubernetes Artifacts
Configure Pods and Containers
Assign Memory Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign CPU Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign Devices to Pods and Containers
Set Up DRA in a Cluster
Allocate Devices to Workloads with DRA
Access DRA Device Metadata
Assign Pod-level CPU and memory resources
Configure GMSA for Windows Pods and containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Pods
Configure RunAsUserName for Windows pods and containers
Create a Windows HostProcess Pod
Configure Quality of Service for Pods
Assign Extended Resources to a Container
Configure a Pod to Use a Volume for Storage
Configure a Pod to Use a Projected Volume for Storage
Configure a Security Context for a Pod or Container
Configure Service Accounts for Pods
Pull an Image from a Private Registry
Configure Liveness, Readiness and Startup Probes
Assign Pods to Nodes
Assign Pods to Nodes using Node Affinity
Configure Pod Initialization
Attach Handlers to Container Lifecycle Events
Configure a Pod to Use a ConfigMap
Share Process Namespace between Containers in a Pod
Use a User Namespace With a Pod
Use an Image Volume With a Pod
Set Permissions on an emptyDir Volume
Set Bind Mount Options on Volume Mounts
Create static Pods
Translate a Docker Compose File to Kubernetes Resources
Enforce Pod Security Standards by Configuring the Built-in Admission Controller
Enforce Pod Security Standards with Namespace Labels
Migrate from PodSecurityPolicy to the Built-In PodSecurity Admission Controller
Monitoring, Logging, and Debugging
Logging in Kubernetes
Monitoring in Kubernetes
Troubleshooting Applications
Debug Pods
Debug Services
Debug a StatefulSet
Determine the Reason for Pod Failure
Debug Init Containers
Debug Running Pods
Get a Shell to a Running Container
Troubleshooting Clusters
Troubleshooting kubectl
Resource metrics pipeline
Tools for Monitoring Resources
Monitor Node Health
Debugging Kubernetes nodes with crictl
Troubleshooting Topology Management
Auditing
Debugging Kubernetes Nodes With Kubectl
Developing and debugging services locally using telepresence
Windows debugging tips
Manage Kubernetes Objects
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Kustomize
Managing Kubernetes Objects Using Imperative Commands
Imperative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Update API Objects in Place Using kubectl patch
Migrate Kubernetes Objects Using Storage Version Migration
Managing Secrets
Managing Secrets using kubectl
Managing Secrets using Configuration File
Managing Secrets using Kustomize
Inject Data Into Applications
Define a Command and Arguments for a Container
Define Dependent Environment Variables
Define Environment Variables for a Container
Define Environment Variable Values Using An Init Container
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Environment Variables
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Files
Distribute Credentials Securely Using Secrets
Run Applications
Run a Stateless Application Using a Deployment
Horizontal Manual Scaling for a Deployment
Update a Deployment Without Downtime
Run a Single-Instance Stateful Application
Run a Replicated Stateful Application
Scale a StatefulSet
Delete a StatefulSet
Force Delete StatefulSet Pods
HorizontalPodAutoscaler Walkthrough
Specifying a Disruption Budget for your Application
Accessing the Kubernetes API from a Pod
Run Jobs
Running Automated Tasks with a CronJob
Coarse Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Fine Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Indexed Job for Parallel Processing with Static Work Assignment
Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication
Parallel Processing using Expansions
Handling retriable and non-retriable pod failures with Pod failure policy
Access Applications in a Cluster
Deploy and Access the Kubernetes Dashboard
Accessing Clusters
Configure Access to Multiple Clusters
Use Port Forwarding to Access Applications in a Cluster
Use a Service to Access an Application in a Cluster
Connect a Frontend to a Backend Using Services
Create an External Load Balancer
List All Container Images Running in a Cluster
Communicate Between Containers in the Same Pod Using a Shared Volume
Configure DNS for a Cluster
Access Services Running on Clusters
Extend Kubernetes
Configure the Aggregation Layer
Use Custom Resources
Extend the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions
Versions in CustomResourceDefinitions
Set up an Extension API Server
Configure Multiple Schedulers
Use an HTTP Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Use a SOCKS5 Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Set up Konnectivity service
TLS
Issue a Certificate for a Kubernetes API Client Using a CertificateSigningRequest
Configure Certificate Rotation for the Kubelet
Manage TLS Certificates in a Cluster
Manual Rotation of CA Certificates
Manage Cluster Daemons
Building a Basic DaemonSet
Perform a Rolling Update on a DaemonSet
Perform a Rollback on a DaemonSet
Running Pods on Only Some Nodes
Networking
Adding entries to Pod /etc/hosts with HostAliases
Extend Service IP Ranges
Kubernetes Default ServiceCIDR Reconfiguration
Validate IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Extend kubectl with plugins
Manage HugePages
Schedule GPUs
Tutorials
Hello Minikube
Learn Kubernetes Basics
Create a Cluster
Using Minikube to Create a Cluster
Deploy an App
Using kubectl to Create a Deployment
Explore Your App
Viewing Pods and Nodes
Expose Your App Publicly
Using a Service to Expose Your App
Scale Your App
Running Multiple Instances of Your App
Update Your App
Performing a Rolling Update
Configuration
Updating Configuration via a ConfigMap
Configuring Redis using a ConfigMap
Adopting Sidecar Containers
Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage
Security
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Cluster Level
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Namespace Level
Restrict a Container's Access to Resources with AppArmor
Restrict a Container's Syscalls with seccomp
Stateless Applications
Deploy a Release Using a Canary Deployment
Exposing an External IP Address to Access an Application in a Cluster
Example: Deploying PHP Guestbook application with Redis
Stateful Applications
StatefulSet Basics
Example: Deploying WordPress and MySQL with Persistent Volumes
Example: Deploying Cassandra with a StatefulSet
Running ZooKeeper, A Distributed System Coordinator
Cluster Management
Running Kubelet in Standalone Mode
Configuring swap memory on Kubernetes nodes
Use Pod-Level Resources with kubelet Resource Managers
Install Drivers and Allocate Devices with DRA
Explore Validating and Mutating Admission Policies
Namespaces Walkthrough
Services
Connecting Applications with Services
Using Source IP
Explore Termination Behavior for Pods And Their Endpoints
Reference
Glossary
API Overview
Declarative API Validation
Kubernetes API Concepts
Server-Side Apply
Client Libraries
Common Expression Language in Kubernetes
Deprecated API Migration Guide
Kubernetes API health endpoints
API Access Control
Authenticating
Authenticating with Bootstrap Tokens
Authorization
Using RBAC Authorization
Using Node Authorization
Webhook Mode
Using ABAC Authorization
Admission Control
Dynamic Admission Control
Managing Service Accounts
User Impersonation
Certificates and Certificate Signing Requests
Mapping PodSecurityPolicies to Pod Security Standards
Kubelet authentication/authorization
TLS bootstrapping
Manifest-Based Admission Control
Mutating Admission Policy
Validating Admission Policy
Kubernetes Deprecation Policy
Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints
Audit Annotations
Kubernetes API
API Groups
Admissionregistration
MutatingAdmissionPolicy
MutatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
MutatingWebhookConfiguration
ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
ValidatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
Apiextensions
CustomResourceDefinition
Apiregistration
APIService
Apiserverinternal
StorageVersion
Apps
ControllerRevision
DaemonSet
Deployment
ReplicaSet
StatefulSet
Autoscaling
HorizontalPodAutoscaler
Batch
CronJob
Job
Certificates
CertificateSigningRequest
ClusterTrustBundle
PodCertificateRequest
Coordination
Lease
LeaseCandidate
Discovery
EndpointSlice
Events
Event
Core
ComponentStatus
ConfigMap
Endpoints
Event
LimitRange
Namespace
Node
PersistentVolume
PersistentVolumeClaim
Pod
PodTemplate
ReplicationController
ResourceQuota
Secret
Service
ServiceAccount
Flowcontrol
FlowSchema
PriorityLevelConfiguration
Lifecycle
Eviction
EvictionRequest
Networking
IPAddress
Ingress
IngressClass
NetworkPolicy
ServiceCIDR
Node
RuntimeClass
Policy
PodDisruptionBudget
Rbac
ClusterRole
ClusterRoleBinding
Role
RoleBinding
Resource
DeviceClass
DeviceTaintRule
ResourceClaim
ResourceClaimTemplate
ResourcePoolStatusRequest
ResourceSlice
Scheduling
CompositePodGroup
PodGroup
PriorityClass
Workload
Storage
CSIDriver
CSINode
CSIStorageCapacity
StorageClass
VolumeAttachment
VolumeAttributesClass
Storagemigration
StorageVersionMigration
Instrumentation
Service Level Indicator Metrics
CRI Pod & Container Metrics
Native Histograms
Node metrics data
Understand Pressure Stall Information (PSI) Metrics
Kubernetes z-pages
Kubernetes Metrics Reference
Kubernetes Issues and Security
Kubernetes Issue Tracker
Kubernetes Security and Disclosure Information
CVE feed
Node Reference Information
Kubelet Checkpoint API
Linux Kernel Version Requirements
Standard Device Attributes for Dynamic Resource Allocation
Articles on dockershim Removal and on Using CRI-compatible Runtimes
Kubelet Pods API
Pod-level resource managers reference
Node Labels Populated By The Kubelet
Kubelet Sync Loop
Local Files And Paths Used By The Kubelet
Kubelet Configuration Directory Merging
Kubelet Device Manager API Versions
Kubelet Systemd Watchdog
Node Status
Seccomp and Kubernetes
What Happens After A Node Restart
Linux Node Swap Behaviors
Networking Reference
Protocols for Services
Ports and Protocols
Virtual IPs and Service Proxies
Setup tools
Kubeadm
kubeadm init
kubeadm join
kubeadm upgrade
kubeadm upgrade phases
kubeadm config
kubeadm reset
kubeadm token
kubeadm version
kubeadm alpha
kubeadm certs
kubeadm init phase
kubeadm join phase
kubeadm kubeconfig
kubeadm reset phase
Implementation details
Command line tool (kubectl)
Introduction to kubectl
kubectl Quick Reference
kubectl reference
kubectl
kubectl annotate
kubectl api-resources
kubectl api-versions
kubectl apply
kubectl apply edit-last-applied
kubectl apply set-last-applied
kubectl apply view-last-applied
kubectl attach
kubectl auth
kubectl auth can-i
kubectl auth reconcile
kubectl auth whoami
kubectl autoscale
kubectl certificate
kubectl certificate approve
kubectl certificate deny
kubectl cluster-info
kubectl cluster-info dump
kubectl completion
kubectl config
kubectl config current-context
kubectl config delete-cluster
kubectl config delete-context
kubectl config delete-user
kubectl config get-clusters
kubectl config get-contexts
kubectl config get-users
kubectl config rename-context
kubectl config set
kubectl config set-cluster
kubectl config set-context
kubectl config set-credentials
kubectl config unset
kubectl config use-context
kubectl config view
kubectl cordon
kubectl cp
kubectl create
kubectl create clusterrole
kubectl create clusterrolebinding
kubectl create configmap
kubectl create cronjob
kubectl create deployment
kubectl create ingress
kubectl create job
kubectl create namespace
kubectl create poddisruptionbudget
kubectl create priorityclass
kubectl create quota
kubectl create role
kubectl create rolebinding
kubectl create secret
kubectl create secret docker-registry
kubectl create secret generic
kubectl create secret tls
kubectl create service
kubectl create service clusterip
kubectl create service externalname
kubectl create service loadbalancer
kubectl create service nodeport
kubectl create serviceaccount
kubectl create token
kubectl debug
kubectl delete
kubectl describe
kubectl diff
kubectl drain
kubectl edit
kubectl events
kubectl exec
kubectl explain
kubectl expose
kubectl get
kubectl kuberc
kubectl kuberc set
kubectl kuberc view
kubectl kustomize
kubectl label
kubectl logs
kubectl options
kubectl patch
kubectl plugin
kubectl plugin list
kubectl port-forward
kubectl proxy
kubectl replace
kubectl rollout
kubectl rollout history
kubectl rollout pause
kubectl rollout restart
kubectl rollout resume
kubectl rollout status
kubectl rollout undo
kubectl run
kubectl scale
kubectl set
kubectl set env
kubectl set image
kubectl set resources
kubectl set selector
kubectl set serviceaccount
kubectl set subject
kubectl taint
kubectl top
kubectl top node
kubectl top pod
kubectl uncordon
kubectl version
kubectl wait
kubectl Commands
kubectl
JSONPath Support
kubectl for Docker Users
kubectl Usage Conventions
Kubectl user preferences (kuberc)
Encodings
KYAML Reference
Component tools
Feature Gates
Feature Gates (removed)
kube-apiserver
kube-controller-manager
kube-proxy
kube-scheduler
kubelet
Debug cluster
Flow control
Configuration APIs
Client Authentication (v1)
Client Authentication (v1beta1)
Event Rate Limit Configuration (v1alpha1)
Image Policy API (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Admission (v1)
kube-apiserver Audit Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1beta1)
kube-controller-manager Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-proxy Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-scheduler Configuration (v1)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta3)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta4)
kubeconfig (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1alpha1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1beta1)
Kubelet CredentialProvider (v1)
kuberc (v1alpha1)
kuberc (v1beta1)
WebhookAdmission Configuration (v1)
External APIs
Kubernetes Custom Metrics (v1beta2)
Kubernetes External Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubelet APIs
Kubelet Summary API (v1alpha1)
Scheduling
Scheduler Configuration
Scheduling Policies
Other Tools
Contribute
Contribute to Kubernetes Documentation
Contributing to Kubernetes blogs
Submitting articles to Kubernetes blogs
Blog guidelines
Blog article mirroring
Post-release communications
Helping as a blog writing buddy
Suggesting content improvements
Contributing new content
Opening a pull request
Previewing locally
Documenting for a release
Case studies
Reviewing changes
Reviewing pull requests
For approvers and reviewers
Localizing Kubernetes documentation
Participating in SIG Docs
Roles and responsibilities
Issue Wranglers
PR wranglers
Documentation style overview
Content guide
Style guide
Diagram guide
Writing a new topic
Page content types
Content organization
Custom Hugo Shortcodes
Updating Reference Documentation
Quickstart
Release generation
Contributing to the Upstream Kubernetes Code
Generating Reference Documentation for the Kubernetes API
Generating Reference Documentation for Configuration APIs
Generating Reference Documentation for kubectl Commands
Generating Reference Documentation for Metrics
Generating Reference Pages for Kubernetes Components and Tools
Advanced contributing
Viewing Site Analytics
Docs smoke test page
CustomResourceDefinition API reference
Edit this page
Create child page
Create an issue
Print entire section
Custom resources
Custom controllers
Should I add a custom resource to my Kubernetes cluster? Declarative APIs
Should I use a ConfigMap or a custom resource?
Adding custom resources
CustomResourceDefinitions
API server aggregation
Choosing a method for adding custom resources Comparing ease of use
Advanced features and flexibility
Common Features
Preparing to install a custom resource Third party code and new points of failure
Storage
Authentication, authorization, and auditing
Accessing a custom resource
Custom resource field selectors Selectable fields for custom resources
What's next
Kubernetes Documentation
Concepts
Extending Kubernetes
Extending the Kubernetes API
Custom Resources
Custom Resources
Custom resources are instances of resource types added to Kubernetes through API extensions. This page discusses when to add a custom
resource to your Kubernetes cluster and when to use a standalone service. It describes the two
methods for adding custom resources and how to choose between them.
Custom resources
A resource is an endpoint in the Kubernetes API that
stores a collection of API objects
of a certain kind; for example, the built-in pods resource contains a collection of Pod objects.
A custom resource is an extension of the Kubernetes API that is not necessarily available in a default
Kubernetes installation. It represents a customization of a particular Kubernetes installation. However,
many core Kubernetes functions are now built using custom resources, making Kubernetes more modular.
Custom resources can appear and disappear in a running cluster through dynamic registration,
and cluster admins can update custom resources independently of the cluster itself.
Once a custom resource is installed, users can create and access its objects using
kubectl , just as they do for built-in resources
like Pods .
Custom controllers
On their own, custom resources let you store and retrieve structured data.
When you combine a custom resource with a custom controller , custom resources
provide a true declarative API .
The Kubernetes declarative API
enforces a separation of responsibilities. You declare the desired state of
your resource. The Kubernetes controller keeps the current state of Kubernetes
objects in sync with your declared desired state. This is in contrast to an
imperative API, where you instruct a server what to do.
You can deploy and update a custom controller on a running cluster, independently
of the cluster's lifecycle. Custom controllers can work with any kind of resource,
but they are especially effective when combined with custom resources. The
Operator pattern combines custom
resources and custom controllers. You can use custom controllers to encode domain knowledge
for specific applications into an extension of the Kubernetes API.
Should I add a custom resource to my Kubernetes cluster?
When creating a new API, consider whether to
aggregate your API with the Kubernetes cluster APIs
or let your API stand alone.
Consider API aggregation if:
Prefer a stand-alone API if:
Your API is Declarative .
Your API does not fit the Declarative model.
You want your new types to be readable and writable using kubectl .
kubectl support is not required
You want to view your new types in a Kubernetes UI, such as dashboard, alongside built-in types.
Kubernetes UI support is not required.
You are developing a new API.
You already have a program that serves your API and works well.
You are willing to accept the format restriction that Kubernetes puts on REST resource paths, such as API Groups and Namespaces. (See the API Overview .)
You need to have specific REST paths to be compatible with an already defined REST API.
Your resources are naturally scoped to a cluster or namespaces of a cluster.
Cluster or namespace scoped resources are a poor fit; you need control over the specifics of resource paths.
You want to reuse Kubernetes API support features .
You don't need those features.
Declarative APIs
In a Declarative API, typically:
Your API consists of a relatively small number of relatively small objects (resources).
The objects define configuration of applications or infrastructure.
The objects are updated relatively infrequently.
Humans often need to read and write the objects.
The main operations on the objects are CRUD-y (creating, reading, updating and deleting).
Transactions across objects are not required: the API represents a desired state, not an exact state.
Imperative APIs are not declarative.
Signs that your API might not be declarative include:
The client says "do this", and then gets a synchronous response back when it is done.
The client says "do this", and then gets an operation ID back, and has to check a separate
Operation object to determine completion of the request.
You talk about Remote Procedure Calls (RPCs).
Directly storing large amounts of data; for example, > a few kB per object, or > 1000s of objects.
High bandwidth access (10s of requests per second sustained) needed.
Store end-user data (such as images, PII, etc.) or other large-scale data processed by applications.
The natural operations on the objects are not CRUD-y.
The API is not easily modeled as objects.
You chose to represent pending operations with an operation ID or an operation object.
Should I use a ConfigMap or a custom resource?
Use a ConfigMap if any of the following apply:
There is an existing, well-documented configuration file format, such as a mysql.cnf or
pom.xml .
You want to put the entire configuration into one key of a ConfigMap.
The main use of the configuration file is for a program running in a Pod on your cluster to
consume the file to configure itself.
Consumers of the file prefer to consume via file in a Pod or environment variable in a pod,
rather than the Kubernetes API.
You want to perform rolling updates via Deployment, etc., when the file is updated.
Note:
Use a Secret for sensitive data, which is similar
to a ConfigMap but more secure.
Use a custom resource (CRD or Aggregated API) if most of the following apply:
You want to use Kubernetes client libraries and CLIs to create and update the new resource.
You want top-level support from kubectl ; for example, kubectl get my-object object-name .
You want to build new automation that watches for updates on the new object, and then CRUD other
objects, or vice versa.
You want to write automation that handles updates to the object.
You want to use Kubernetes API conventions like .spec , .status , and .metadata .
You want the object to be an abstraction over a collection of controlled resources, or a
summarization of other resources.
Adding custom resources
Kubernetes provides two ways to add custom resources to your cluster:
CRDs are simple and can be created without any programming.
API Aggregation
requires programming, but allows more control over API behaviors like how data is stored and
conversion between API versions.
Kubernetes provides these two options to meet the needs of different users, so that neither ease
of use nor flexibility is compromised.
Aggregated APIs are subordinate API servers that sit behind the primary API server, which acts as
a proxy. This arrangement is called API Aggregation (AA).
To users, the Kubernetes API appears extended.
CRDs allow users to create new types of resources without adding another API server. You do not
need to understand API Aggregation to use CRDs.
Regardless of how they are installed, the new resources are referred to as Custom Resources to
distinguish them from built-in Kubernetes resources (like pods).
Note:
Avoid using a Custom Resource as data storage for application, end user, or monitoring data:
architecture designs that store application data within the Kubernetes API typically represent
a design that is too closely coupled.
Architecturally, cloud native application architectures
favor loose coupling between components. If part of your workload requires a backing service for
its routine operation, run that backing service as a component or consume it as an external service.
This way, your workload does not rely on the Kubernetes API for its normal operation.
CustomResourceDefinitions
The CustomResourceDefinition
API resource allows you to define custom resources.
Defining a CRD object creates a new custom resource with a name and schema that you specify.
The Kubernetes API serves and handles the storage of your custom resource.
The name of the CRD object itself must be a valid
DNS subdomain name derived from the defined resource name and its API group; see how to create a CRD for more details.
Further, the name of an object whose kind/resource is defined by a CRD must also be a valid DNS subdomain name.
This frees you from writing your own API server to handle the custom resource,
but the generic nature of the implementation means you have less flexibility than with
API server aggregation .
Refer to the custom controller example
for an example of how to register a new custom resource, work with instances of your new resource type,
and use a controller to handle events.
API server aggregation
Usually, each resource in the Kubernetes API requires code that handles REST requests and manages
persistent storage of objects. The main Kubernetes API server handles built-in resources like
pods and services , and can also generically handle custom resources through
CRDs .
The aggregation layer
allows you to provide specialized implementations for your custom resources by writing and
deploying your own API server.
The main API server delegates requests to your API server for the custom resources that you handle,
making them available to all of its clients.
Choosing a method for adding custom resources
CRDs are easier to use. Aggregated APIs are more flexible. Choose the method that best meets your needs.
Typically, CRDs are a good fit if:
You have a handful of fields
You are using the resource within your company, or as part of a small open-source project (as
opposed to a commercial product)
Comparing ease of use
CRDs are easier to create than Aggregated APIs.
CRDs
Aggregated API
Do not require programming. Users can choose any language for a CRD controller.
Requires programming and building binary and image.
No additional service to run; CRDs are handled by API server.
An additional service to create and that could fail.
No ongoing support once the CRD is created. Any bug fixes are picked up as part of normal Kubernetes Master upgrades.
May need to periodically pickup bug fixes from upstream and rebuild and update the Aggregated API server.
No need to handle multiple versions of your API; for example, when you control the client for this resource, you can upgrade it in sync with the API.
You need to handle multiple versions of your API; for example, when developing an extension to share with the world.
Advanced features and flexibility
Aggregated APIs offer more advanced API features and customization of other features; for example, the storage layer.
Feature
Description
CRDs
Aggregated API
Validation
Help users prevent errors and allow you to evolve your API independently of your clients. These features are most useful when there are many clients who can't all update at the same time.
Yes. Most validation can be specified in the CRD using OpenAPI v3.0 validation . The CRDValidationRatcheting feature gate allows failing validations specified using OpenAPI to be ignored if the failing part of the resource was unchanged. Any other validations are supported by the addition of a Validating Webhook .
Yes, arbitrary validation checks
Defaulting
See above
Yes, either via OpenAPI v3.0 validation default keyword (GA in 1.17), or via a Mutating Webhook (though this will not be run when reading from etcd for old objects).
Yes
Multi-versioning
Allows serving the same object through two API versions. Can help ease API changes like renaming fields. Less important if you control your client versions.
Yes
Yes
Custom Storage
If you need storage with a different performance mode (for example, a time-series database instead of key-value store) or isolation for security (for example, encryption of sensitive information, etc.)
No
Yes
Custom Business Logic
Perform arbitrary checks or actions when creating, reading, updating or deleting an object
Yes, using Webhooks .
Yes
Scale Subresource
Allows systems like HorizontalPodAutoscaler and PodDisruptionBudget interact with your new resource
Yes
Yes
Status Subresource
Allows fine-grained access control where user writes the spec section and the controller writes the status section. Allows incrementing object Generation on custom resource data mutation (requires separate spec and status sections in the resource)
Yes
Yes
Other Subresources
Add operations other than CRUD, such as "logs" or "exec".
No
Yes
strategic-merge-patch
The new endpoints support PATCH with Content-Type: application/strategic-merge-patch+json . Useful for updating objects that may be modified both locally, and by the server. For more information, see "Update API Objects in Place Using kubectl patch"
No
Yes
Protocol Buffers
The new resource supports clients that want to use Protocol Buffers
No
Yes
OpenAPI Schema
Is there an OpenAPI (swagger) schema for the types that can be dynamically fetched from the server? Is the user protected from misspelling field names by ensuring only allowed fields are set? Are types enforced (in other words, don't put an int in a string field?)
Yes, based on the OpenAPI v3.0 validation schema (GA in 1.16).
Yes
Instance Name
Does this extension mechanism impose any constraints on the names of objects whose kind/resource is defined this way?
Yes, such an object's name must be a valid DNS subdomain name.
No
Common Features
When you create a custom resource, either via a CRD or an AA, you get many features for your API,
compared to implementing it outside the Kubernetes platform:
Feature
What it does
CRUD
The new endpoints support CRUD basic operations via HTTP and kubectl
Watch
The new endpoints support Kubernetes Watch operations via HTTP
Discovery
Clients like kubectl and dashboard automatically offer list, display, and field edit operations on your resources
json-patch
The new endpoints support PATCH with Content-Type: application/json-patch+json
merge-patch
The new endpoints support PATCH with Content-Type: application/merge-patch+json
HTTPS
The new endpoints uses HTTPS
Built-in Authentication
Access to the extension uses the core API server (aggregation layer) for authentication
Built-in Authorization
Access to the extension can reuse the authorization used by the core API server; for example, RBAC.
Finalizers
Block deletion of extension resources until external cleanup happens.
Admission Webhooks
Set default values and validate extension resources during any create/update/delete operation.
UI/CLI Display
Kubectl, dashboard can display extension resources.
Unset versus Empty
Clients can distinguish unset fields from zero-valued fields.
Client Libraries Generation
Kubernetes provides generic client libraries, as well as tools to generate type-specific client libraries.
Labels and annotations
Common metadata across objects that tools know how to edit for core and custom resources.
Preparing to install a custom resource
There are several points to be aware of before adding a custom resource to your cluster.
Third party code and new points of failure
While creating a CRD does not automatically add any new points of failure (for example, by causing
third party code to run on your API server), packages (for example, Charts) or other installation
bundles often include CRDs as well as a Deployment of third-party code that implements the
business logic for a new custom resource.
Installing an Aggregated API server always involves running a new Deployment.
Storage
Custom resources consume storage space in the same way that ConfigMaps do. Creating too many
custom resources may overload your API server's storage space.
Custom resources are placed into storage based upon the current storage
version of the resource, defined in the CRD spec. Any update to a custom
resource will use the currently defined storage version to store the resource.
All other versions either need to have all the fields of that version or define
conversions to work properly.
Aggregated API servers may use the same storage as the main API server, in which case the same
warning applies.
Authentication, authorization, and auditing
CRDs always use the same authentication, authorization, and audit logging as the built-in
resources of your API server.
If you use RBAC for authorization, most RBAC roles will not grant access to the new resources
(except the cluster-admin role or any role created with wildcard rules). You'll need to explicitly
grant access to the new resources. CRDs and Aggregated APIs often come bundled with new role
definitions for the types they add.
Aggregated API servers may or may not use the same authentication, authorization, and auditing as
the primary API server.
Accessing a custom resource
Kubernetes client libraries can be used to access
custom resources. Not all client libraries support custom resources. The Go and Python client
libraries do.
When you add a custom resource, you can access it using:
kubectl
The Kubernetes dynamic client.
A REST client that you write.
A client generated using Kubernetes client generation tools
(generating one is an advanced undertaking, but some projects may provide a client along with
the CRD or AA).
Custom resource field selectors
Field Selectors
let clients select custom resources based on the value of one or more resource
fields.
All custom resources support the metadata.name and metadata.namespace field
selectors.
Fields declared in a CustomResourceDefinition
may also be used with field selectors when included in the spec.versions[*].selectableFields field of the
CustomResourceDefinition .
Selectable fields for custom resources
Feature state:
Stable since Kubernetes v1.32; enabled by default
More information about this feature This is a stable feature in Kubernetes, and has been since version 1.32. It was first available in the v1.30 release.
The spec.versions[*].selectableFields field of a CustomResourceDefinition may be used to
declare which other fields in a custom resource may be used in field selectors.
The following example adds the .spec.color and .spec.size fields as
selectable fields.
customresourcedefinition/shirt-resource-definition.yaml
apiVersion : apiextensions.k8s.io/v1
kind : CustomResourceDefinition
metadata :
name : shirts.stable.example.com
spec :
group : stable.example.com
scope : Namespaced
names :
plural : shirts
singular : shirt
kind : Shirt
versions :
- name : v1
served : true
storage : true
schema :
openAPIV3Schema :
type : object
properties :
spec :
type : object
properties :
color :
type : string
size :
type : string
selectableFields :
- jsonPath : .spec.color
- jsonPath : .spec.size
additionalPrinterColumns :
- jsonPath : .spec.color
name : Color
type : string
- jsonPath : .spec.size
name : Size
type : string
Field selectors can then be used to get only resources with a color of blue :
kubectl get shirts.stable.example.com --field-selector spec.color = blue
The output should be:
NAME COLOR SIZE
example1 blue S
example2 blue M
What's next
Learn how to Extend the Kubernetes API with the aggregation layer .
Learn how to Extend the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinition .
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No Thanks for the feedback. If you have a specific, answerable question about how to use Kubernetes, ask it on
Stack Overflow .
Open an issue in the GitHub Repository if you want to
report a problem
or
suggest an improvement .
Last modified September 01, 2026 at 12:01 PM PST: Fix repeated words and misspellings in English docs (172426e45f)
© 2026 The Kubernetes Authors | Documentation Distributed under CC BY 4.0
© 2026 Copyright © Kubernetes a Series of LF Projects, LLC. For website terms of use, trademark policy and other project policies please see https://lfprojects.org/policies/
ICP license: 京ICP备17074266号-3