Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes | Kubernetes
Kubernetes Documentation
Kubernetes Blog
Training
Careers
Partners
Community
Versions Release Information
v1.37
v1.36
v1.35
v1.34
v1.33
English 中文 (Chinese)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
日本語 (Japanese)
বাংলা (Bengali)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Italiano (Italian)
한국어 (Korean)
فارسی (Persian)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
Light
Dark
Auto
KubeCon + CloudNativeCon North America 2026
Join us for four days of incredible opportunities to collaborate, learn and share with the cloud native community.
Buy your ticket now! 9 - 12 November | Salt Lake City, Utah
Hide this notice
Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes
English বাংলা (Bengali)
中文 (Chinese)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
فارسی (Persian)
Kubernetes Documentation
Documentation
Available Documentation Versions
Getting started
Learning environment
Production environment
Container Runtimes
Installing Kubernetes with deployment tools
Bootstrapping clusters with kubeadm
Installing kubeadm
Troubleshooting kubeadm
Creating a cluster with kubeadm
Customizing components with the kubeadm API
Options for Highly Available Topology
Creating Highly Available Clusters with kubeadm
Set up a High Availability etcd Cluster with kubeadm
Configuring each kubelet in your cluster using kubeadm
Dual-stack support with kubeadm
Turnkey Cloud Solutions
Best practices
Considerations for large clusters
Running in multiple zones
Validate node setup
Enforcing Pod Security Standards
PKI certificates and requirements
Concepts
Overview
Kubernetes Components
Objects In Kubernetes
Kubernetes Object Management
Object Names and IDs
Labels and Selectors
Namespaces
Annotations
Field Selectors
Finalizers
Owners and Dependents
Recommended Labels
Storage Versions
The Kubernetes API
The kubectl command-line tool
Cluster Architecture
Nodes
Communication between Nodes and the Control Plane
Controllers
Leases
Cloud Controller Manager
About cgroup v2
Kubernetes Self-Healing
Garbage Collection
Mixed Version Proxy
Containers
Images
Container Environment
Runtime Class
Container Lifecycle Hooks
Container Runtime Interface (CRI)
Workloads
Pods
Pod Lifecycle
Pod Conditions
Init Containers
Sidecar Containers
Ephemeral Containers
Liveness, Readiness, and Startup Probes
Disruptions
Pod Hostname
Pod Quality of Service Classes
Scheduling Group
Static Pods
User Namespaces
Downward API
Advanced Pod Configuration
Workload API
Pod Group Disruption and Priority
PodGroup Scheduling Policies
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Scheduling Building Block APIs and the workloadbuilder Library
Workload Management
Deployments
ReplicaSet
StatefulSets
DaemonSet
Jobs
Automatic Cleanup for Finished Jobs
CronJob
ReplicationController
CompositePodGroup API
CompositePodGroup Lifecycle
PodGroup API
PodGroup Lifecycle
Managing Workloads
Autoscaling Workloads
Horizontal Pod Autoscaling
Vertical Pod Autoscaling
Services, Load Balancing, and Networking
Service
Ingress
Ingress Controllers
Gateway API
EndpointSlices
Network Policies
DNS for Services and Pods
IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Topology Aware Routing
Networking on Windows
Service ClusterIP allocation
Service Internal Traffic Policy
Storage
Volumes
Persistent Volumes
Projected Volumes
Ephemeral Volumes
Storage Classes
Volume Attributes Classes
Dynamic Volume Provisioning
Volume Snapshots
Volume Snapshot Classes
CSI Volume Cloning
Volume Populators and Data Sources
Storage Capacity
Node-specific Volume Limits
Local ephemeral storage
Volume Health Monitoring
Windows Storage
Configuration
ConfigMaps
Secrets
Resource Management for Pods and Containers
Organizing Cluster Access Using kubeconfig Files
Resource Management for Windows nodes
Security
Cloud Native Security
Pod Security Standards
Pod Security Admission
Service Accounts
Pod Security Policies
Security For Linux Nodes
Security For Windows Nodes
Controlling Access to the Kubernetes API
Role Based Access Control Good Practices
Good practices for Kubernetes Secrets
Multi-tenancy
Hardening Guide - Authentication Mechanisms
Hardening Guide - Dynamic Resource Allocation
Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration
Kubernetes API Server Bypass Risks
Linux kernel security constraints for Pods and containers
Security Checklist
Application Security Checklist
Policies
Limit Ranges
Resource Quotas
Process ID Limits And Reservations
Scheduling, Preemption and Eviction
Kubernetes Scheduler
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Assigning Pods to Nodes
Pod Overhead
Pod Scheduling Readiness
Pod Topology Spread Constraints
Taints and Tolerations
Scheduling Framework
Gang Scheduling
Scheduler Performance Tuning
PodGroup Scheduling
Resource Bin Packing
Workload-Aware Preemption
Pod Priority and Preemption
Node-pressure Eviction
API-initiated Eviction
Node Declared Features
Resource Management
Resource managers
Dynamic Resource Allocation
DRA API Objects
How DRA Works
Observability of Dynamic Resources
DRA Features
Device Taints and Tolerations
Pod-level resource managers
Cluster Administration
Node Shutdowns
Swap memory management
Node Autoscaling
Certificates
Cluster Networking
Observability
Admission Webhook Good Practices
Good practices for Dynamic Resource Allocation as a Cluster Admin
Logging Architecture
Compatibility Version For Kubernetes Control Plane Components
Metrics For Kubernetes System Components
Metrics for Kubernetes Object States
System Logs
Traces For Kubernetes System Components
Proxies in Kubernetes
API Priority and Fairness
Installing Addons
Coordinated Leader Election
Windows in Kubernetes
Windows containers in Kubernetes
Guide for Running Windows Containers in Kubernetes
Extending Kubernetes
Compute, Storage, and Networking Extensions
Network Plugins
Device Plugins
Extending the Kubernetes API
Custom Resources
Kubernetes API Aggregation Layer
Operator pattern
Tasks
Install Tools
Install and Set Up kubectl on Linux
Install and Set Up kubectl on macOS
Install and Set Up kubectl on Windows
Administer a Cluster
Administration with kubeadm
Adding Linux worker nodes
Adding Windows worker nodes
Upgrading kubeadm clusters
Upgrading Linux nodes
Upgrading Windows nodes
Certificate Management with kubeadm
Reconfiguring a kubeadm cluster
Changing The Kubernetes Package Repository
Overprovision Node Capacity For A Cluster
Migrating from dockershim
Changing the Container Runtime on a Node from Docker Engine to containerd
Find Out What Container Runtime is Used on a Node
Troubleshooting CNI plugin-related errors
Check whether dockershim removal affects you
Migrating telemetry and security agents from dockershim
Generate Certificates Manually
Manage Memory, CPU, and API Resources
Configure Default Memory Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Default CPU Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum Memory Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum CPU Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Memory and CPU Quotas for a Namespace
Configure a Pod Quota for a Namespace
Install a Network Policy Provider
Use Antrea for NetworkPolicy
Use Calico for NetworkPolicy
Use Cilium for NetworkPolicy
Use Kube-router for NetworkPolicy
Access Clusters Using the Kubernetes API
Enable Or Disable Feature Gates
Advertise Extended Resources for a Node
Autoscale the DNS Service in a Cluster
Change the Access Mode of a PersistentVolume to ReadWriteOncePod
Change the default StorageClass
Switching from Polling to CRI Event-based Updates to Container Status
Change the Reclaim Policy of a PersistentVolume
Cloud Controller Manager Administration
Configure a kubelet image credential provider
Configure Quotas for API Objects
Control CPU Management Policies on the Node
Control Memory Management Policies on a Node
Control Topology Management Policies on a node
Customizing DNS Service
Debugging DNS Resolution
Declare Network Policy
Developing Cloud Controller Manager
Enable Or Disable A Kubernetes API
Encrypting Confidential Data at Rest
Decrypt Confidential Data that is Already Encrypted at Rest
Guaranteed Scheduling For Critical Add-On Pods
IP Masquerade Agent User Guide
Limit Storage Consumption
Migrate Replicated Control Plane To Use Cloud Controller Manager
Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes
Reserve Compute Resources for System Daemons
Running Kubernetes Node Components as a Non-root User
Safely Drain a Node
Securing a Cluster
Harden Dynamic Resource Allocation in Your Cluster
Set Kubelet Parameters Via A Configuration File
Share a Cluster with Namespaces
Upgrade A Cluster
Use Cascading Deletion in a Cluster
Using a KMS provider for data encryption
Using CoreDNS for Service Discovery
Using NodeLocal DNSCache in Kubernetes Clusters
Using sysctls in a Kubernetes Cluster
Verify Signed Kubernetes Artifacts
Configure Pods and Containers
Assign Memory Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign CPU Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign Devices to Pods and Containers
Set Up DRA in a Cluster
Allocate Devices to Workloads with DRA
Access DRA Device Metadata
Assign Pod-level CPU and memory resources
Configure GMSA for Windows Pods and containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Pods
Configure RunAsUserName for Windows pods and containers
Create a Windows HostProcess Pod
Configure Quality of Service for Pods
Assign Extended Resources to a Container
Configure a Pod to Use a Volume for Storage
Configure a Pod to Use a Projected Volume for Storage
Configure a Security Context for a Pod or Container
Configure Service Accounts for Pods
Pull an Image from a Private Registry
Configure Liveness, Readiness and Startup Probes
Assign Pods to Nodes
Assign Pods to Nodes using Node Affinity
Configure Pod Initialization
Attach Handlers to Container Lifecycle Events
Configure a Pod to Use a ConfigMap
Share Process Namespace between Containers in a Pod
Use a User Namespace With a Pod
Use an Image Volume With a Pod
Set Permissions on an emptyDir Volume
Set Bind Mount Options on Volume Mounts
Create static Pods
Translate a Docker Compose File to Kubernetes Resources
Enforce Pod Security Standards by Configuring the Built-in Admission Controller
Enforce Pod Security Standards with Namespace Labels
Migrate from PodSecurityPolicy to the Built-In PodSecurity Admission Controller
Monitoring, Logging, and Debugging
Logging in Kubernetes
Monitoring in Kubernetes
Troubleshooting Applications
Debug Pods
Debug Services
Debug a StatefulSet
Determine the Reason for Pod Failure
Debug Init Containers
Debug Running Pods
Get a Shell to a Running Container
Troubleshooting Clusters
Troubleshooting kubectl
Resource metrics pipeline
Tools for Monitoring Resources
Monitor Node Health
Debugging Kubernetes nodes with crictl
Troubleshooting Topology Management
Auditing
Debugging Kubernetes Nodes With Kubectl
Developing and debugging services locally using telepresence
Windows debugging tips
Manage Kubernetes Objects
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Kustomize
Managing Kubernetes Objects Using Imperative Commands
Imperative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Update API Objects in Place Using kubectl patch
Migrate Kubernetes Objects Using Storage Version Migration
Managing Secrets
Managing Secrets using kubectl
Managing Secrets using Configuration File
Managing Secrets using Kustomize
Inject Data Into Applications
Define a Command and Arguments for a Container
Define Dependent Environment Variables
Define Environment Variables for a Container
Define Environment Variable Values Using An Init Container
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Environment Variables
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Files
Distribute Credentials Securely Using Secrets
Run Applications
Run a Stateless Application Using a Deployment
Horizontal Manual Scaling for a Deployment
Update a Deployment Without Downtime
Run a Single-Instance Stateful Application
Run a Replicated Stateful Application
Scale a StatefulSet
Delete a StatefulSet
Force Delete StatefulSet Pods
HorizontalPodAutoscaler Walkthrough
Specifying a Disruption Budget for your Application
Accessing the Kubernetes API from a Pod
Run Jobs
Running Automated Tasks with a CronJob
Coarse Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Fine Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Indexed Job for Parallel Processing with Static Work Assignment
Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication
Parallel Processing using Expansions
Handling retriable and non-retriable pod failures with Pod failure policy
Access Applications in a Cluster
Deploy and Access the Kubernetes Dashboard
Accessing Clusters
Configure Access to Multiple Clusters
Use Port Forwarding to Access Applications in a Cluster
Use a Service to Access an Application in a Cluster
Connect a Frontend to a Backend Using Services
Create an External Load Balancer
List All Container Images Running in a Cluster
Communicate Between Containers in the Same Pod Using a Shared Volume
Configure DNS for a Cluster
Access Services Running on Clusters
Extend Kubernetes
Configure the Aggregation Layer
Use Custom Resources
Extend the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions
Versions in CustomResourceDefinitions
Set up an Extension API Server
Configure Multiple Schedulers
Use an HTTP Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Use a SOCKS5 Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Set up Konnectivity service
TLS
Issue a Certificate for a Kubernetes API Client Using a CertificateSigningRequest
Configure Certificate Rotation for the Kubelet
Manage TLS Certificates in a Cluster
Manual Rotation of CA Certificates
Manage Cluster Daemons
Building a Basic DaemonSet
Perform a Rolling Update on a DaemonSet
Perform a Rollback on a DaemonSet
Running Pods on Only Some Nodes
Networking
Adding entries to Pod /etc/hosts with HostAliases
Extend Service IP Ranges
Kubernetes Default ServiceCIDR Reconfiguration
Validate IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Extend kubectl with plugins
Manage HugePages
Schedule GPUs
Tutorials
Hello Minikube
Learn Kubernetes Basics
Create a Cluster
Using Minikube to Create a Cluster
Deploy an App
Using kubectl to Create a Deployment
Explore Your App
Viewing Pods and Nodes
Expose Your App Publicly
Using a Service to Expose Your App
Scale Your App
Running Multiple Instances of Your App
Update Your App
Performing a Rolling Update
Configuration
Updating Configuration via a ConfigMap
Configuring Redis using a ConfigMap
Adopting Sidecar Containers
Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage
Security
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Cluster Level
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Namespace Level
Restrict a Container's Access to Resources with AppArmor
Restrict a Container's Syscalls with seccomp
Stateless Applications
Deploy a Release Using a Canary Deployment
Exposing an External IP Address to Access an Application in a Cluster
Example: Deploying PHP Guestbook application with Redis
Stateful Applications
StatefulSet Basics
Example: Deploying WordPress and MySQL with Persistent Volumes
Example: Deploying Cassandra with a StatefulSet
Running ZooKeeper, A Distributed System Coordinator
Cluster Management
Running Kubelet in Standalone Mode
Configuring swap memory on Kubernetes nodes
Use Pod-Level Resources with kubelet Resource Managers
Install Drivers and Allocate Devices with DRA
Explore Validating and Mutating Admission Policies
Namespaces Walkthrough
Services
Connecting Applications with Services
Using Source IP
Explore Termination Behavior for Pods And Their Endpoints
Reference
Glossary
API Overview
Declarative API Validation
Kubernetes API Concepts
Server-Side Apply
Client Libraries
Common Expression Language in Kubernetes
Deprecated API Migration Guide
Kubernetes API health endpoints
API Access Control
Authenticating
Authenticating with Bootstrap Tokens
Authorization
Using RBAC Authorization
Using Node Authorization
Webhook Mode
Using ABAC Authorization
Admission Control
Dynamic Admission Control
Managing Service Accounts
User Impersonation
Certificates and Certificate Signing Requests
Mapping PodSecurityPolicies to Pod Security Standards
Kubelet authentication/authorization
TLS bootstrapping
Manifest-Based Admission Control
Mutating Admission Policy
Validating Admission Policy
Kubernetes Deprecation Policy
Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints
Audit Annotations
Kubernetes API
API Groups
Admissionregistration
MutatingAdmissionPolicy
MutatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
MutatingWebhookConfiguration
ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
ValidatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
Apiextensions
CustomResourceDefinition
Apiregistration
APIService
Apiserverinternal
StorageVersion
Apps
ControllerRevision
DaemonSet
Deployment
ReplicaSet
StatefulSet
Autoscaling
HorizontalPodAutoscaler
Batch
CronJob
Job
Certificates
CertificateSigningRequest
ClusterTrustBundle
PodCertificateRequest
Coordination
Lease
LeaseCandidate
Discovery
EndpointSlice
Events
Event
Core
ComponentStatus
ConfigMap
Endpoints
Event
LimitRange
Namespace
Node
PersistentVolume
PersistentVolumeClaim
Pod
PodTemplate
ReplicationController
ResourceQuota
Secret
Service
ServiceAccount
Flowcontrol
FlowSchema
PriorityLevelConfiguration
Lifecycle
Eviction
EvictionRequest
Networking
IPAddress
Ingress
IngressClass
NetworkPolicy
ServiceCIDR
Node
RuntimeClass
Policy
PodDisruptionBudget
Rbac
ClusterRole
ClusterRoleBinding
Role
RoleBinding
Resource
DeviceClass
DeviceTaintRule
ResourceClaim
ResourceClaimTemplate
ResourcePoolStatusRequest
ResourceSlice
Scheduling
CompositePodGroup
PodGroup
PriorityClass
Workload
Storage
CSIDriver
CSINode
CSIStorageCapacity
StorageClass
VolumeAttachment
VolumeAttributesClass
Storagemigration
StorageVersionMigration
Instrumentation
Service Level Indicator Metrics
CRI Pod & Container Metrics
Native Histograms
Node metrics data
Understand Pressure Stall Information (PSI) Metrics
Kubernetes z-pages
Kubernetes Metrics Reference
Kubernetes Issues and Security
Kubernetes Issue Tracker
Kubernetes Security and Disclosure Information
CVE feed
Node Reference Information
Kubelet Checkpoint API
Linux Kernel Version Requirements
Standard Device Attributes for Dynamic Resource Allocation
Articles on dockershim Removal and on Using CRI-compatible Runtimes
Kubelet Pods API
Pod-level resource managers reference
Node Labels Populated By The Kubelet
Kubelet Sync Loop
Local Files And Paths Used By The Kubelet
Kubelet Configuration Directory Merging
Kubelet Device Manager API Versions
Kubelet Systemd Watchdog
Node Status
Seccomp and Kubernetes
What Happens After A Node Restart
Linux Node Swap Behaviors
Networking Reference
Protocols for Services
Ports and Protocols
Virtual IPs and Service Proxies
Setup tools
Kubeadm
kubeadm init
kubeadm join
kubeadm upgrade
kubeadm upgrade phases
kubeadm config
kubeadm reset
kubeadm token
kubeadm version
kubeadm alpha
kubeadm certs
kubeadm init phase
kubeadm join phase
kubeadm kubeconfig
kubeadm reset phase
Implementation details
Command line tool (kubectl)
Introduction to kubectl
kubectl Quick Reference
kubectl reference
kubectl
kubectl annotate
kubectl api-resources
kubectl api-versions
kubectl apply
kubectl apply edit-last-applied
kubectl apply set-last-applied
kubectl apply view-last-applied
kubectl attach
kubectl auth
kubectl auth can-i
kubectl auth reconcile
kubectl auth whoami
kubectl autoscale
kubectl certificate
kubectl certificate approve
kubectl certificate deny
kubectl cluster-info
kubectl cluster-info dump
kubectl completion
kubectl config
kubectl config current-context
kubectl config delete-cluster
kubectl config delete-context
kubectl config delete-user
kubectl config get-clusters
kubectl config get-contexts
kubectl config get-users
kubectl config rename-context
kubectl config set
kubectl config set-cluster
kubectl config set-context
kubectl config set-credentials
kubectl config unset
kubectl config use-context
kubectl config view
kubectl cordon
kubectl cp
kubectl create
kubectl create clusterrole
kubectl create clusterrolebinding
kubectl create configmap
kubectl create cronjob
kubectl create deployment
kubectl create ingress
kubectl create job
kubectl create namespace
kubectl create poddisruptionbudget
kubectl create priorityclass
kubectl create quota
kubectl create role
kubectl create rolebinding
kubectl create secret
kubectl create secret docker-registry
kubectl create secret generic
kubectl create secret tls
kubectl create service
kubectl create service clusterip
kubectl create service externalname
kubectl create service loadbalancer
kubectl create service nodeport
kubectl create serviceaccount
kubectl create token
kubectl debug
kubectl delete
kubectl describe
kubectl diff
kubectl drain
kubectl edit
kubectl events
kubectl exec
kubectl explain
kubectl expose
kubectl get
kubectl kuberc
kubectl kuberc set
kubectl kuberc view
kubectl kustomize
kubectl label
kubectl logs
kubectl options
kubectl patch
kubectl plugin
kubectl plugin list
kubectl port-forward
kubectl proxy
kubectl replace
kubectl rollout
kubectl rollout history
kubectl rollout pause
kubectl rollout restart
kubectl rollout resume
kubectl rollout status
kubectl rollout undo
kubectl run
kubectl scale
kubectl set
kubectl set env
kubectl set image
kubectl set resources
kubectl set selector
kubectl set serviceaccount
kubectl set subject
kubectl taint
kubectl top
kubectl top node
kubectl top pod
kubectl uncordon
kubectl version
kubectl wait
kubectl Commands
kubectl
JSONPath Support
kubectl for Docker Users
kubectl Usage Conventions
Kubectl user preferences (kuberc)
Encodings
KYAML Reference
Component tools
Feature Gates
Feature Gates (removed)
kube-apiserver
kube-controller-manager
kube-proxy
kube-scheduler
kubelet
Debug cluster
Flow control
Configuration APIs
Client Authentication (v1)
Client Authentication (v1beta1)
Event Rate Limit Configuration (v1alpha1)
Image Policy API (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Admission (v1)
kube-apiserver Audit Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1beta1)
kube-controller-manager Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-proxy Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-scheduler Configuration (v1)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta3)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta4)
kubeconfig (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1alpha1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1beta1)
Kubelet CredentialProvider (v1)
kuberc (v1alpha1)
kuberc (v1beta1)
WebhookAdmission Configuration (v1)
External APIs
Kubernetes Custom Metrics (v1beta2)
Kubernetes External Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubelet APIs
Kubelet Summary API (v1alpha1)
Scheduling
Scheduler Configuration
Scheduling Policies
Other Tools
Contribute
Contribute to Kubernetes Documentation
Contributing to Kubernetes blogs
Submitting articles to Kubernetes blogs
Blog guidelines
Blog article mirroring
Post-release communications
Helping as a blog writing buddy
Suggesting content improvements
Contributing new content
Opening a pull request
Previewing locally
Documenting for a release
Case studies
Reviewing changes
Reviewing pull requests
For approvers and reviewers
Localizing Kubernetes documentation
Participating in SIG Docs
Roles and responsibilities
Issue Wranglers
PR wranglers
Documentation style overview
Content guide
Style guide
Diagram guide
Writing a new topic
Page content types
Content organization
Custom Hugo Shortcodes
Updating Reference Documentation
Quickstart
Release generation
Contributing to the Upstream Kubernetes Code
Generating Reference Documentation for the Kubernetes API
Generating Reference Documentation for Configuration APIs
Generating Reference Documentation for kubectl Commands
Generating Reference Documentation for Metrics
Generating Reference Pages for Kubernetes Components and Tools
Advanced contributing
Viewing Site Analytics
Docs smoke test page
Edit this page Third party content advice
Create child page
Create an issue
Print entire section
Before you begin Resource requirements for etcd
Tools
Understanding etcdctl and etcdutl
Starting etcd clusters Single-node etcd cluster
Multi-node etcd cluster
Multi-node etcd cluster with load balancer
Securing etcd clusters Securing communication
Limiting access of etcd clusters
Replacing a failed etcd member
Backing up an etcd cluster Built-in snapshot
Volume snapshot
Snapshot using etcdctl options
Scaling out etcd clusters
Restoring an etcd cluster
Upgrading etcd clusters
Streaming reads from etcd
Maintaining etcd clusters Cluster defragmentation
Kubernetes Documentation
Tasks
Administer a Cluster
Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes
Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes
etcd is a consistent and highly-available key value store used as Kubernetes' backing store for all cluster data.
If your Kubernetes cluster uses etcd as its backing store, make sure you have a
back up plan
for the data.
You can find in-depth information about etcd in the official documentation .
Before you begin
Before you follow steps in this page to deploy, manage, back up or restore etcd,
you need to understand the typical expectations for operating an etcd cluster.
Refer to the etcd documentation for more context.
Key details include:
The minimum recommended etcd versions to run in production are 3.4.29+ and 3.5.11+ .
etcd is a leader-based distributed system. Ensure that the leader
periodically send heartbeats on time to all followers to keep the cluster
stable.
You should run etcd as a cluster with an odd number of members.
Aim to ensure that no resource starvation occurs.
Performance and stability of the cluster is sensitive to network and disk
I/O. Any resource starvation can lead to heartbeat timeout, causing instability
of the cluster. An unstable etcd indicates that no leader is elected. Under
such circumstances, a cluster cannot make any changes to its current state,
which implies no new pods can be scheduled.
Resource requirements for etcd
Operating etcd with limited resources is suitable only for testing purposes.
For deploying in production, advanced hardware configuration is required.
Before deploying etcd in production, see
resource requirement reference .
Keeping etcd clusters stable is critical to the stability of Kubernetes
clusters. Therefore, run etcd clusters on dedicated machines or isolated
environments for guaranteed resource requirements .
Tools
Depending on which specific outcome you're working on, you will need the etcdctl tool or the
etcdutl tool (you may need both).
Understanding etcdctl and etcdutl
etcdctl and etcdutl are command-line tools used to interact with etcd clusters, but they serve different purposes:
etcdctl : This is the primary command-line client for interacting with etcd over a
network. It is used for day-to-day operations such as managing keys and values,
administering the cluster, checking health, and more.
etcdutl : This is an administration utility designed to operate directly on etcd data
files, including migrating data between etcd versions, defragmenting the database,
restoring snapshots, and validating data consistency. For network operations, etcdctl
should be used.
For more information on etcdutl , you can refer to the etcd recovery documentation .
Starting etcd clusters
This section covers starting a single-node and multi-node etcd cluster.
This guide assumes that etcd is already installed.
Single-node etcd cluster
Use a single-node etcd cluster only for testing purposes.
Run the following:
etcd --listen-client-urls = http:// $PRIVATE_IP :2379 \
--advertise-client-urls = http:// $PRIVATE_IP :2379
Start the Kubernetes API server with the flag
--etcd-servers=$PRIVATE_IP:2379 .
Make sure PRIVATE_IP is set to your etcd client IP.
Multi-node etcd cluster
For durability and high availability, run etcd as a multi-node cluster in
production and back it up periodically. A five-member cluster is recommended
in production. For more information, see
FAQ documentation .
As you're using Kubernetes, you have the option to run etcd as a container inside
one or more Pods. The kubeadm tool sets up etcd
static pods by default, or
you can deploy a
separate cluster
and instruct kubeadm to use that etcd cluster as the control plane's backing store.
You configure an etcd cluster either by static member information or by dynamic
discovery. For more information on clustering, see
etcd clustering documentation .
For an example, consider a five-member etcd cluster running with the following
client URLs: http://$IP1:2379 , http://$IP2:2379 , http://$IP3:2379 ,
http://$IP4:2379 , and http://$IP5:2379 . To start a Kubernetes API server:
Run the following:
etcd --listen-client-urls = http:// $IP1 :2379,http:// $IP2 :2379,http:// $IP3 :2379,http:// $IP4 :2379,http:// $IP5 :2379 --advertise-client-urls = http:// $IP1 :2379,http:// $IP2 :2379,http:// $IP3 :2379,http:// $IP4 :2379,http:// $IP5 :2379
Start the Kubernetes API servers with the flag
--etcd-servers=$IP1:2379,$IP2:2379,$IP3:2379,$IP4:2379,$IP5:2379 .
Make sure the IP<n> variables are set to your client IP addresses.
Multi-node etcd cluster with load balancer
To run a load balancing etcd cluster:
Set up an etcd cluster.
Configure a load balancer in front of the etcd cluster.
For example, let the address of the load balancer be $LB .
Start Kubernetes API Servers with the flag --etcd-servers=$LB:2379 .
Securing etcd clusters
Access to etcd is equivalent to root permission in the cluster so ideally only
the API server should have access to it. Considering the sensitivity of the
data, it is recommended to grant permission to only those nodes that require
access to etcd clusters.
To secure etcd, either set up firewall rules or use the security features
provided by etcd. etcd security features depend on x509 Public Key
Infrastructure (PKI). To begin, establish secure communication channels by
generating a key and certificate pair. For example, use key pairs peer.key
and peer.cert for securing communication between etcd members, and
client.key and client.cert for securing communication between etcd and its
clients. See the example scripts
provided by the etcd project to generate key pairs and CA files for client
authentication.
Securing communication
To configure etcd with secure peer communication, specify flags
--peer-key-file=peer.key and --peer-cert-file=peer.cert , and use HTTPS as
the URL schema.
Similarly, to configure etcd with secure client communication, specify flags
--key=k8sclient.key and --cert=k8sclient.cert , and use HTTPS as
the URL schema. Here is an example on a client command that uses secure
communication:
ETCDCTL_API=3 etcdctl --endpoints 10.2.0.9:2379 \
--cert=/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.crt \
--key=/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/server.key \
--cacert=/etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.crt \
member list
Limiting access of etcd clusters
After configuring secure communication, restrict the access of the etcd cluster to
only the Kubernetes API servers using TLS authentication.
For example, consider key pairs k8sclient.key and k8sclient.cert that are
trusted by the CA etcd.ca . When etcd is configured with --client-cert-auth
along with TLS, it verifies the certificates from clients by using system CAs
or the CA passed in by --trusted-ca-file flag. Specifying flags
--client-cert-auth=true and --trusted-ca-file=etcd.ca will restrict the
access to clients with the certificate k8sclient.cert .
Once etcd is configured correctly, only clients with valid certificates can
access it. To give Kubernetes API servers the access, configure them with the
flags --etcd-certfile=k8sclient.cert , --etcd-keyfile=k8sclient.key and
--etcd-cafile=ca.cert .
Note:
etcd authentication is not planned for Kubernetes.
Replacing a failed etcd member
etcd cluster achieves high availability by tolerating minor member failures.
However, to improve the overall health of the cluster, replace failed members
immediately. When multiple members fail, replace them one by one. Replacing a
failed member involves two steps: removing the failed member and adding a new
member.
Though etcd keeps unique member IDs internally, it is recommended to use a
unique name for each member to avoid human errors. For example, consider a
three-member etcd cluster. Let the URLs be, member1=http://10.0.0.1 ,
member2=http://10.0.0.2 , and member3=http://10.0.0.3 . When member1 fails,
replace it with member4=http://10.0.0.4 .
Get the member ID of the failed member1 :
etcdctl --endpoints = http://10.0.0.2,http://10.0.0.3 member list
The following message is displayed:
8211f1d0f64f3269, started, member1, http://10.0.0.1:2380, http://10.0.0.1:2379
91bc3c398fb3c146, started, member2, http://10.0.0.2:2380, http://10.0.0.2:2379
fd422379fda50e48, started, member3, http://10.0.0.3:2380, http://10.0.0.3:2379
Do either of the following:
If each Kubernetes API server is configured to communicate with all etcd
members, remove the failed member from the --etcd-servers flag, then
restart each Kubernetes API server.
If each Kubernetes API server communicates with a single etcd member,
then stop the Kubernetes API server that communicates with the failed
etcd.
Stop the etcd server on the broken node. It is possible that other
clients besides the Kubernetes API server are causing traffic to etcd
and it is desirable to stop all traffic to prevent writes to the data
directory.
Remove the failed member:
etcdctl member remove 8211f1d0f64f3269
The following message is displayed:
Removed member 8211f1d0f64f3269 from cluster
Add the new member:
etcdctl member add member4 --peer-urls = http://10.0.0.4:2380
The following message is displayed:
Member 2be1eb8f84b7f63e added to cluster ef37ad9dc622a7c4
Start the newly added member on a machine with the IP 10.0.0.4 :
export ETCD_NAME = "member4"
export ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER = "member2=http://10.0.0.2:2380,member3=http://10.0.0.3:2380,member4=http://10.0.0.4:2380"
export ETCD_INITIAL_CLUSTER_STATE = existing
etcd [ flags ]
Do either of the following:
If each Kubernetes API server is configured to communicate with all etcd
members, add the newly added member to the --etcd-servers flag, then
restart each Kubernetes API server.
If each Kubernetes API server communicates with a single etcd member,
start the Kubernetes API server that was stopped in step 2. Then
configure Kubernetes API server clients to again route requests to the
Kubernetes API server that was stopped. This can often be done by
configuring a load balancer.
For more information on cluster reconfiguration, see
etcd reconfiguration documentation .
Backing up an etcd cluster
All Kubernetes objects are stored in etcd. Periodically backing up the etcd
cluster data is important to recover Kubernetes clusters under disaster
scenarios, such as losing all control plane nodes. The snapshot file contains
all the Kubernetes state and critical information. In order to keep the
sensitive Kubernetes data safe, encrypt the snapshot files.
Backing up an etcd cluster can be accomplished in two ways: etcd built-in
snapshot and volume snapshot.
Built-in snapshot
etcd supports built-in snapshot. A snapshot may either be created from a live
member with the etcdctl snapshot save command or by copying the
member/snap/db file from an etcd
data directory
that is not currently used by an etcd process. Creating the snapshot will
not affect the performance of the member.
Below is an example for creating a snapshot of the keyspace served by
$ENDPOINT to the file snapshot.db :
ETCDCTL_API = 3 etcdctl --endpoints $ENDPOINT snapshot save snapshot.db
Verify the snapshot:
Use etcdutl
Use etcdctl (Deprecated) The below example depicts the usage of the etcdutl tool for verifying a snapshot:
etcdutl --write-out = table snapshot status snapshot.db
This should generate an output resembling the example provided below:
+----------+----------+------------+------------+
| HASH | REVISION | TOTAL KEYS | TOTAL SIZE |
+----------+----------+------------+------------+
| fe01cf57 | 10 | 7 | 2.1 MB |
+----------+----------+------------+------------+
Note:
The usage of etcdctl snapshot status has been deprecated since etcd v3.5.x and is slated for removal from etcd v3.6.
It is recommended to utilize etcdutl instead.
The below example depicts the usage of the etcdctl tool for verifying a snapshot:
export ETCDCTL_API = 3
etcdctl --write-out = table snapshot status snapshot.db
This should generate an output resembling the example provided below:
Deprecated: Use `etcdutl snapshot status` instead.
+----------+----------+------------+------------+
| HASH | REVISION | TOTAL KEYS | TOTAL SIZE |
+----------+----------+------------+------------+
| fe01cf57 | 10 | 7 | 2.1 MB |
+----------+----------+------------+------------+
Volume snapshot
If etcd is running on a storage volume that supports backup, such as Amazon
Elastic Block Store, back up etcd data by creating a snapshot of the storage
volume.
Snapshot using etcdctl options
We can also create the snapshot using various options given by etcdctl. For example:
ETCDCTL_API = 3 etcdctl -h
will list various options available from etcdctl. For example, you can create a snapshot by specifying
the endpoint, certificates and key as shown below:
ETCDCTL_API = 3 etcdctl --endpoints = https://127.0.0.1:2379 \
--cacert = <trusted-ca-file> --cert = <cert-file> --key = <key-file> \
snapshot save <backup-file-location>
where trusted-ca-file , cert-file and key-file can be obtained from the description of the etcd Pod.
Scaling out etcd clusters
Scaling out etcd clusters increases availability by trading off performance.
Scaling does not increase cluster performance nor capability. A general rule
is not to scale out or in etcd clusters. Do not configure any auto scaling
groups for etcd clusters. It is strongly recommended to always run a static
five-member etcd cluster for production Kubernetes clusters at any officially
supported scale.
A reasonable scaling is to upgrade a three-member cluster to a five-member
one, when more reliability is desired. See
etcd reconfiguration documentation
for information on how to add members into an existing cluster.
Restoring an etcd cluster
Caution:
If any API servers are running in your cluster, you should not attempt to
restore instances of etcd. Instead, follow these steps to restore etcd:
stop all API server instances
restore state in all etcd instances
restart all API server instances
The Kubernetes project also recommends restarting Kubernetes components ( kube-scheduler ,
kube-controller-manager , kubelet ) to ensure that they don't rely on some
stale data. In practice the restore takes a bit of time. During the
restoration, critical components will lose leader lock and restart themselves.
etcd supports restoring from snapshots that are taken from an etcd process of
the major.minor version. Restoring a version from a
different patch version of etcd is also supported. A restore operation is
employed to recover the data of a failed cluster.
Before starting the restore operation, a snapshot file must be present. It can
either be a snapshot file from a previous backup operation, or from a remaining
data directory .
Use etcdutl
Use etcdctl (Deprecated) When restoring the cluster using etcdutl ,
use the --data-dir option to specify to which folder the cluster should be restored:
etcdutl --data-dir <data-dir-location> snapshot restore snapshot.db
where <data-dir-location> is a directory that will be created during the restore process.
Note:
The usage of etcdctl for restoring has been deprecated since etcd v3.5.x and is slated for removal from etcd v3.6.
It is recommended to utilize etcdutl instead.
The below example depicts the usage of the etcdctl tool for the restore operation:
export ETCDCTL_API = 3
etcdctl --data-dir <data-dir-location> snapshot restore snapshot.db
If <data-dir-location> is the same folder as before, delete it and stop the etcd process before restoring the cluster.
Otherwise, change etcd configuration and restart the etcd process after restoration to have it use the new data directory:
first change /etc/kubernetes/manifests/etcd.yaml 's volumes.hostPath.path for name: etcd-data to <data-dir-location> ,
then execute kubectl -n kube-system delete pod <name-of-etcd-pod> or systemctl restart kubelet.service (or both).
For more information and examples on restoring a cluster from a snapshot file, see
etcd disaster recovery documentation .
If the access URLs of the restored cluster are changed from the previous
cluster, the Kubernetes API server must be reconfigured accordingly. In this
case, restart Kubernetes API servers with the flag
--etcd-servers=$NEW_ETCD_CLUSTER instead of the flag
--etcd-servers=$OLD_ETCD_CLUSTER . Replace $NEW_ETCD_CLUSTER and
$OLD_ETCD_CLUSTER with the respective IP addresses. If a load balancer is
used in front of an etcd cluster, you might need to update the load balancer
instead.
If the majority of etcd members have permanently failed, the etcd cluster is
considered failed. In this scenario, Kubernetes cannot make any changes to its
current state. Although the scheduled pods might continue to run, no new pods
can be scheduled. In such cases, recover the etcd cluster and potentially
reconfigure Kubernetes API servers to fix the issue.
Upgrading etcd clusters
Caution:
Before you start an upgrade, back up your etcd cluster first.
For details on etcd upgrade, refer to the etcd upgrades documentation.
Streaming reads from etcd
Feature state:
Beta since Kubernetes v1.37; enabled by default
With the EtcdRangeStream feature gate enabled and etcd v3.7 or later, the API server
reads large collections from etcd as a stream instead of in pages, which lowers peak
memory use on both sides. If the backend does not implement the RangeStream RPC, the
API server detects the gRPC Unimplemented response and falls back to paginated reads.
If your etcd-compatible backend or proxy does not fall back cleanly, disable the gate
with --feature-gates=EtcdRangeStream=false .
Note:
Streamed reads are recorded as operation="listStream" in the
etcd_request_duration_seconds metric. Update any dashboard or alert that matches
operation="list" .
Maintaining etcd clusters
For more details on etcd maintenance, please refer to the etcd maintenance documentation.
Cluster defragmentation
🛇 This item links to a third party project or product that is not part of Kubernetes itself. More information
Defragmentation is an expensive operation, so it should be executed as infrequently
as possible. On the other hand, it's also necessary to make sure any etcd member
will not exceed the storage quota. The Kubernetes project recommends that when
you perform defragmentation, you use a tool such as etcd-defrag .
You can also run the defragmentation tool as a Kubernetes CronJob, to make sure that
defragmentation happens regularly. See etcd-defrag-cronjob.yaml
for details.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No Thanks for the feedback. If you have a specific, answerable question about how to use Kubernetes, ask it on
Stack Overflow .
Open an issue in the GitHub Repository if you want to
report a problem
or
suggest an improvement .
Last modified August 03, 2026 at 8:20 PM PST: Document EtcdRangeStream on the etcd operations page (216a752010)
Items on this page refer to third party products or projects that provide functionality required by Kubernetes. The Kubernetes project authors aren't responsible for those third-party products or projects. See the CNCF website guidelines for more details.
You should read the content guide before proposing a change that adds an extra third-party link.
© 2026 The Kubernetes Authors | Documentation Distributed under CC BY 4.0
© 2026 Copyright © Kubernetes a Series of LF Projects, LLC. For website terms of use, trademark policy and other project policies please see https://lfprojects.org/policies/
ICP license: 京ICP备17074266号-3