Certificate Management with kubeadm | Kubernetes
Kubernetes Documentation
Kubernetes Blog
Training
Careers
Partners
Community
Versions Release Information
v1.37
v1.36
v1.35
v1.34
v1.33
English 中文 (Chinese)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
বাংলা (Bengali)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
فارسی (Persian)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
Light
Dark
Auto
KubeCon + CloudNativeCon North America 2026
Join us for four days of incredible opportunities to collaborate, learn and share with the cloud native community.
Buy your ticket now! 9 - 12 November | Salt Lake City, Utah
Hide this notice
Certificate Management with kubeadm
English বাংলা (Bengali)
中文 (Chinese)
Français (French)
Deutsch (German)
हिन्दी (Hindi)
Bahasa Indonesia (Indonesian)
Italiano (Italian)
日本語 (Japanese)
한국어 (Korean)
Polski (Polish)
Português (Portuguese)
Русский (Russian)
Español (Spanish)
Українська (Ukrainian)
Tiếng Việt (Vietnamese)
فارسی (Persian)
Kubernetes Documentation
Documentation
Available Documentation Versions
Getting started
Learning environment
Production environment
Container Runtimes
Installing Kubernetes with deployment tools
Bootstrapping clusters with kubeadm
Installing kubeadm
Troubleshooting kubeadm
Creating a cluster with kubeadm
Customizing components with the kubeadm API
Options for Highly Available Topology
Creating Highly Available Clusters with kubeadm
Set up a High Availability etcd Cluster with kubeadm
Configuring each kubelet in your cluster using kubeadm
Dual-stack support with kubeadm
Turnkey Cloud Solutions
Best practices
Considerations for large clusters
Running in multiple zones
Validate node setup
Enforcing Pod Security Standards
PKI certificates and requirements
Concepts
Overview
Kubernetes Components
Objects In Kubernetes
Kubernetes Object Management
Object Names and IDs
Labels and Selectors
Namespaces
Annotations
Field Selectors
Finalizers
Owners and Dependents
Recommended Labels
Storage Versions
The Kubernetes API
The kubectl command-line tool
Cluster Architecture
Nodes
Communication between Nodes and the Control Plane
Controllers
Leases
Cloud Controller Manager
About cgroup v2
Kubernetes Self-Healing
Garbage Collection
Mixed Version Proxy
Containers
Images
Container Environment
Runtime Class
Container Lifecycle Hooks
Container Runtime Interface (CRI)
Workloads
Pods
Pod Lifecycle
Pod Conditions
Init Containers
Sidecar Containers
Ephemeral Containers
Liveness, Readiness, and Startup Probes
Disruptions
Pod Hostname
Pod Quality of Service Classes
Scheduling Group
Static Pods
User Namespaces
Downward API
Advanced Pod Configuration
Workload API
Pod Group Disruption and Priority
PodGroup Scheduling Policies
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Scheduling Building Block APIs and the workloadbuilder Library
Workload Management
Deployments
ReplicaSet
StatefulSets
DaemonSet
Jobs
Automatic Cleanup for Finished Jobs
CronJob
ReplicationController
CompositePodGroup API
CompositePodGroup Lifecycle
PodGroup API
PodGroup Lifecycle
Managing Workloads
Autoscaling Workloads
Horizontal Pod Autoscaling
Vertical Pod Autoscaling
Services, Load Balancing, and Networking
Service
Ingress
Ingress Controllers
Gateway API
EndpointSlices
Network Policies
DNS for Services and Pods
IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Topology Aware Routing
Networking on Windows
Service ClusterIP allocation
Service Internal Traffic Policy
Storage
Volumes
Persistent Volumes
Projected Volumes
Ephemeral Volumes
Storage Classes
Volume Attributes Classes
Dynamic Volume Provisioning
Volume Snapshots
Volume Snapshot Classes
CSI Volume Cloning
Volume Populators and Data Sources
Storage Capacity
Node-specific Volume Limits
Local ephemeral storage
Volume Health Monitoring
Windows Storage
Configuration
ConfigMaps
Secrets
Resource Management for Pods and Containers
Organizing Cluster Access Using kubeconfig Files
Resource Management for Windows nodes
Security
Cloud Native Security
Pod Security Standards
Pod Security Admission
Service Accounts
Pod Security Policies
Security For Linux Nodes
Security For Windows Nodes
Controlling Access to the Kubernetes API
Role Based Access Control Good Practices
Good practices for Kubernetes Secrets
Multi-tenancy
Hardening Guide - Authentication Mechanisms
Hardening Guide - Dynamic Resource Allocation
Hardening Guide - Scheduler Configuration
Kubernetes API Server Bypass Risks
Linux kernel security constraints for Pods and containers
Security Checklist
Application Security Checklist
Policies
Limit Ranges
Resource Quotas
Process ID Limits And Reservations
Scheduling, Preemption and Eviction
Kubernetes Scheduler
Topology-Aware Workload Scheduling
Assigning Pods to Nodes
Pod Overhead
Pod Scheduling Readiness
Pod Topology Spread Constraints
Taints and Tolerations
Scheduling Framework
Gang Scheduling
Scheduler Performance Tuning
PodGroup Scheduling
Resource Bin Packing
Workload-Aware Preemption
Pod Priority and Preemption
Node-pressure Eviction
API-initiated Eviction
Node Declared Features
Resource Management
Resource managers
Dynamic Resource Allocation
DRA API Objects
How DRA Works
Observability of Dynamic Resources
DRA Features
Device Taints and Tolerations
Pod-level resource managers
Cluster Administration
Node Shutdowns
Swap memory management
Node Autoscaling
Certificates
Cluster Networking
Observability
Admission Webhook Good Practices
Good practices for Dynamic Resource Allocation as a Cluster Admin
Logging Architecture
Compatibility Version For Kubernetes Control Plane Components
Metrics For Kubernetes System Components
Metrics for Kubernetes Object States
System Logs
Traces For Kubernetes System Components
Proxies in Kubernetes
API Priority and Fairness
Installing Addons
Coordinated Leader Election
Windows in Kubernetes
Windows containers in Kubernetes
Guide for Running Windows Containers in Kubernetes
Extending Kubernetes
Compute, Storage, and Networking Extensions
Network Plugins
Device Plugins
Extending the Kubernetes API
Custom Resources
Kubernetes API Aggregation Layer
Operator pattern
Tasks
Install Tools
Install and Set Up kubectl on Linux
Install and Set Up kubectl on macOS
Install and Set Up kubectl on Windows
Administer a Cluster
Administration with kubeadm
Adding Linux worker nodes
Adding Windows worker nodes
Upgrading kubeadm clusters
Upgrading Linux nodes
Upgrading Windows nodes
Certificate Management with kubeadm
Reconfiguring a kubeadm cluster
Changing The Kubernetes Package Repository
Overprovision Node Capacity For A Cluster
Migrating from dockershim
Changing the Container Runtime on a Node from Docker Engine to containerd
Find Out What Container Runtime is Used on a Node
Troubleshooting CNI plugin-related errors
Check whether dockershim removal affects you
Migrating telemetry and security agents from dockershim
Generate Certificates Manually
Manage Memory, CPU, and API Resources
Configure Default Memory Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Default CPU Requests and Limits for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum Memory Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Minimum and Maximum CPU Constraints for a Namespace
Configure Memory and CPU Quotas for a Namespace
Configure a Pod Quota for a Namespace
Install a Network Policy Provider
Use Antrea for NetworkPolicy
Use Calico for NetworkPolicy
Use Cilium for NetworkPolicy
Use Kube-router for NetworkPolicy
Access Clusters Using the Kubernetes API
Enable Or Disable Feature Gates
Advertise Extended Resources for a Node
Autoscale the DNS Service in a Cluster
Change the Access Mode of a PersistentVolume to ReadWriteOncePod
Change the default StorageClass
Switching from Polling to CRI Event-based Updates to Container Status
Change the Reclaim Policy of a PersistentVolume
Cloud Controller Manager Administration
Configure a kubelet image credential provider
Configure Quotas for API Objects
Control CPU Management Policies on the Node
Control Memory Management Policies on a Node
Control Topology Management Policies on a node
Customizing DNS Service
Debugging DNS Resolution
Declare Network Policy
Developing Cloud Controller Manager
Enable Or Disable A Kubernetes API
Encrypting Confidential Data at Rest
Decrypt Confidential Data that is Already Encrypted at Rest
Guaranteed Scheduling For Critical Add-On Pods
IP Masquerade Agent User Guide
Limit Storage Consumption
Migrate Replicated Control Plane To Use Cloud Controller Manager
Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes
Reserve Compute Resources for System Daemons
Running Kubernetes Node Components as a Non-root User
Safely Drain a Node
Securing a Cluster
Harden Dynamic Resource Allocation in Your Cluster
Set Kubelet Parameters Via A Configuration File
Share a Cluster with Namespaces
Upgrade A Cluster
Use Cascading Deletion in a Cluster
Using a KMS provider for data encryption
Using CoreDNS for Service Discovery
Using NodeLocal DNSCache in Kubernetes Clusters
Using sysctls in a Kubernetes Cluster
Verify Signed Kubernetes Artifacts
Configure Pods and Containers
Assign Memory Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign CPU Resources to Containers and Pods
Assign Devices to Pods and Containers
Set Up DRA in a Cluster
Allocate Devices to Workloads with DRA
Access DRA Device Metadata
Assign Pod-level CPU and memory resources
Configure GMSA for Windows Pods and containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers
Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Pods
Configure RunAsUserName for Windows pods and containers
Create a Windows HostProcess Pod
Configure Quality of Service for Pods
Assign Extended Resources to a Container
Configure a Pod to Use a Volume for Storage
Configure a Pod to Use a Projected Volume for Storage
Configure a Security Context for a Pod or Container
Configure Service Accounts for Pods
Pull an Image from a Private Registry
Configure Liveness, Readiness and Startup Probes
Assign Pods to Nodes
Assign Pods to Nodes using Node Affinity
Configure Pod Initialization
Attach Handlers to Container Lifecycle Events
Configure a Pod to Use a ConfigMap
Share Process Namespace between Containers in a Pod
Use a User Namespace With a Pod
Use an Image Volume With a Pod
Set Permissions on an emptyDir Volume
Set Bind Mount Options on Volume Mounts
Create static Pods
Translate a Docker Compose File to Kubernetes Resources
Enforce Pod Security Standards by Configuring the Built-in Admission Controller
Enforce Pod Security Standards with Namespace Labels
Migrate from PodSecurityPolicy to the Built-In PodSecurity Admission Controller
Monitoring, Logging, and Debugging
Logging in Kubernetes
Monitoring in Kubernetes
Troubleshooting Applications
Debug Pods
Debug Services
Debug a StatefulSet
Determine the Reason for Pod Failure
Debug Init Containers
Debug Running Pods
Get a Shell to a Running Container
Troubleshooting Clusters
Troubleshooting kubectl
Resource metrics pipeline
Tools for Monitoring Resources
Monitor Node Health
Debugging Kubernetes nodes with crictl
Troubleshooting Topology Management
Auditing
Debugging Kubernetes Nodes With Kubectl
Developing and debugging services locally using telepresence
Windows debugging tips
Manage Kubernetes Objects
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Kustomize
Managing Kubernetes Objects Using Imperative Commands
Imperative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Configuration Files
Update API Objects in Place Using kubectl patch
Migrate Kubernetes Objects Using Storage Version Migration
Managing Secrets
Managing Secrets using kubectl
Managing Secrets using Configuration File
Managing Secrets using Kustomize
Inject Data Into Applications
Define a Command and Arguments for a Container
Define Dependent Environment Variables
Define Environment Variables for a Container
Define Environment Variable Values Using An Init Container
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Environment Variables
Expose Pod Information to Containers Through Files
Distribute Credentials Securely Using Secrets
Run Applications
Run a Stateless Application Using a Deployment
Horizontal Manual Scaling for a Deployment
Update a Deployment Without Downtime
Run a Single-Instance Stateful Application
Run a Replicated Stateful Application
Scale a StatefulSet
Delete a StatefulSet
Force Delete StatefulSet Pods
HorizontalPodAutoscaler Walkthrough
Specifying a Disruption Budget for your Application
Accessing the Kubernetes API from a Pod
Run Jobs
Running Automated Tasks with a CronJob
Coarse Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Fine Parallel Processing Using a Work Queue
Indexed Job for Parallel Processing with Static Work Assignment
Job with Pod-to-Pod Communication
Parallel Processing using Expansions
Handling retriable and non-retriable pod failures with Pod failure policy
Access Applications in a Cluster
Deploy and Access the Kubernetes Dashboard
Accessing Clusters
Configure Access to Multiple Clusters
Use Port Forwarding to Access Applications in a Cluster
Use a Service to Access an Application in a Cluster
Connect a Frontend to a Backend Using Services
Create an External Load Balancer
List All Container Images Running in a Cluster
Communicate Between Containers in the Same Pod Using a Shared Volume
Configure DNS for a Cluster
Access Services Running on Clusters
Extend Kubernetes
Configure the Aggregation Layer
Use Custom Resources
Extend the Kubernetes API with CustomResourceDefinitions
Versions in CustomResourceDefinitions
Set up an Extension API Server
Configure Multiple Schedulers
Use an HTTP Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Use a SOCKS5 Proxy to Access the Kubernetes API
Set up Konnectivity service
TLS
Issue a Certificate for a Kubernetes API Client Using a CertificateSigningRequest
Configure Certificate Rotation for the Kubelet
Manage TLS Certificates in a Cluster
Manual Rotation of CA Certificates
Manage Cluster Daemons
Building a Basic DaemonSet
Perform a Rolling Update on a DaemonSet
Perform a Rollback on a DaemonSet
Running Pods on Only Some Nodes
Networking
Adding entries to Pod /etc/hosts with HostAliases
Extend Service IP Ranges
Kubernetes Default ServiceCIDR Reconfiguration
Validate IPv4/IPv6 dual-stack
Extend kubectl with plugins
Manage HugePages
Schedule GPUs
Tutorials
Hello Minikube
Learn Kubernetes Basics
Create a Cluster
Using Minikube to Create a Cluster
Deploy an App
Using kubectl to Create a Deployment
Explore Your App
Viewing Pods and Nodes
Expose Your App Publicly
Using a Service to Expose Your App
Scale Your App
Running Multiple Instances of Your App
Update Your App
Performing a Rolling Update
Configuration
Updating Configuration via a ConfigMap
Configuring Redis using a ConfigMap
Adopting Sidecar Containers
Configure a Pod to Use a PersistentVolume for Storage
Security
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Cluster Level
Apply Pod Security Standards at the Namespace Level
Restrict a Container's Access to Resources with AppArmor
Restrict a Container's Syscalls with seccomp
Stateless Applications
Deploy a Release Using a Canary Deployment
Exposing an External IP Address to Access an Application in a Cluster
Example: Deploying PHP Guestbook application with Redis
Stateful Applications
StatefulSet Basics
Example: Deploying WordPress and MySQL with Persistent Volumes
Example: Deploying Cassandra with a StatefulSet
Running ZooKeeper, A Distributed System Coordinator
Cluster Management
Running Kubelet in Standalone Mode
Configuring swap memory on Kubernetes nodes
Use Pod-Level Resources with kubelet Resource Managers
Install Drivers and Allocate Devices with DRA
Explore Validating and Mutating Admission Policies
Namespaces Walkthrough
Services
Connecting Applications with Services
Using Source IP
Explore Termination Behavior for Pods And Their Endpoints
Reference
Glossary
API Overview
Declarative API Validation
Kubernetes API Concepts
Server-Side Apply
Client Libraries
Common Expression Language in Kubernetes
Deprecated API Migration Guide
Kubernetes API health endpoints
API Access Control
Authenticating
Authenticating with Bootstrap Tokens
Authorization
Using RBAC Authorization
Using Node Authorization
Webhook Mode
Using ABAC Authorization
Admission Control
Dynamic Admission Control
Managing Service Accounts
User Impersonation
Certificates and Certificate Signing Requests
Mapping PodSecurityPolicies to Pod Security Standards
Kubelet authentication/authorization
TLS bootstrapping
Manifest-Based Admission Control
Mutating Admission Policy
Validating Admission Policy
Kubernetes Deprecation Policy
Well-Known Labels, Annotations and Taints
Audit Annotations
Kubernetes API
API Groups
Admissionregistration
MutatingAdmissionPolicy
MutatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
MutatingWebhookConfiguration
ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
ValidatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
ValidatingWebhookConfiguration
Apiextensions
CustomResourceDefinition
Apiregistration
APIService
Apiserverinternal
StorageVersion
Apps
ControllerRevision
DaemonSet
Deployment
ReplicaSet
StatefulSet
Autoscaling
HorizontalPodAutoscaler
Batch
CronJob
Job
Certificates
CertificateSigningRequest
ClusterTrustBundle
PodCertificateRequest
Coordination
Lease
LeaseCandidate
Discovery
EndpointSlice
Events
Event
Core
ComponentStatus
ConfigMap
Endpoints
Event
LimitRange
Namespace
Node
PersistentVolume
PersistentVolumeClaim
Pod
PodTemplate
ReplicationController
ResourceQuota
Secret
Service
ServiceAccount
Flowcontrol
FlowSchema
PriorityLevelConfiguration
Lifecycle
Eviction
EvictionRequest
Networking
IPAddress
Ingress
IngressClass
NetworkPolicy
ServiceCIDR
Node
RuntimeClass
Policy
PodDisruptionBudget
Rbac
ClusterRole
ClusterRoleBinding
Role
RoleBinding
Resource
DeviceClass
DeviceTaintRule
ResourceClaim
ResourceClaimTemplate
ResourcePoolStatusRequest
ResourceSlice
Scheduling
CompositePodGroup
PodGroup
PriorityClass
Workload
Storage
CSIDriver
CSINode
CSIStorageCapacity
StorageClass
VolumeAttachment
VolumeAttributesClass
Storagemigration
StorageVersionMigration
Instrumentation
Service Level Indicator Metrics
CRI Pod & Container Metrics
Native Histograms
Node metrics data
Understand Pressure Stall Information (PSI) Metrics
Kubernetes z-pages
Kubernetes Metrics Reference
Kubernetes Issues and Security
Kubernetes Issue Tracker
Kubernetes Security and Disclosure Information
CVE feed
Node Reference Information
Kubelet Checkpoint API
Linux Kernel Version Requirements
Standard Device Attributes for Dynamic Resource Allocation
Articles on dockershim Removal and on Using CRI-compatible Runtimes
Kubelet Pods API
Pod-level resource managers reference
Node Labels Populated By The Kubelet
Kubelet Sync Loop
Local Files And Paths Used By The Kubelet
Kubelet Configuration Directory Merging
Kubelet Device Manager API Versions
Kubelet Systemd Watchdog
Node Status
Seccomp and Kubernetes
What Happens After A Node Restart
Linux Node Swap Behaviors
Networking Reference
Protocols for Services
Ports and Protocols
Virtual IPs and Service Proxies
Setup tools
Kubeadm
kubeadm init
kubeadm join
kubeadm upgrade
kubeadm upgrade phases
kubeadm config
kubeadm reset
kubeadm token
kubeadm version
kubeadm alpha
kubeadm certs
kubeadm init phase
kubeadm join phase
kubeadm kubeconfig
kubeadm reset phase
Implementation details
Command line tool (kubectl)
Introduction to kubectl
kubectl Quick Reference
kubectl reference
kubectl
kubectl annotate
kubectl api-resources
kubectl api-versions
kubectl apply
kubectl apply edit-last-applied
kubectl apply set-last-applied
kubectl apply view-last-applied
kubectl attach
kubectl auth
kubectl auth can-i
kubectl auth reconcile
kubectl auth whoami
kubectl autoscale
kubectl certificate
kubectl certificate approve
kubectl certificate deny
kubectl cluster-info
kubectl cluster-info dump
kubectl completion
kubectl config
kubectl config current-context
kubectl config delete-cluster
kubectl config delete-context
kubectl config delete-user
kubectl config get-clusters
kubectl config get-contexts
kubectl config get-users
kubectl config rename-context
kubectl config set
kubectl config set-cluster
kubectl config set-context
kubectl config set-credentials
kubectl config unset
kubectl config use-context
kubectl config view
kubectl cordon
kubectl cp
kubectl create
kubectl create clusterrole
kubectl create clusterrolebinding
kubectl create configmap
kubectl create cronjob
kubectl create deployment
kubectl create ingress
kubectl create job
kubectl create namespace
kubectl create poddisruptionbudget
kubectl create priorityclass
kubectl create quota
kubectl create role
kubectl create rolebinding
kubectl create secret
kubectl create secret docker-registry
kubectl create secret generic
kubectl create secret tls
kubectl create service
kubectl create service clusterip
kubectl create service externalname
kubectl create service loadbalancer
kubectl create service nodeport
kubectl create serviceaccount
kubectl create token
kubectl debug
kubectl delete
kubectl describe
kubectl diff
kubectl drain
kubectl edit
kubectl events
kubectl exec
kubectl explain
kubectl expose
kubectl get
kubectl kuberc
kubectl kuberc set
kubectl kuberc view
kubectl kustomize
kubectl label
kubectl logs
kubectl options
kubectl patch
kubectl plugin
kubectl plugin list
kubectl port-forward
kubectl proxy
kubectl replace
kubectl rollout
kubectl rollout history
kubectl rollout pause
kubectl rollout restart
kubectl rollout resume
kubectl rollout status
kubectl rollout undo
kubectl run
kubectl scale
kubectl set
kubectl set env
kubectl set image
kubectl set resources
kubectl set selector
kubectl set serviceaccount
kubectl set subject
kubectl taint
kubectl top
kubectl top node
kubectl top pod
kubectl uncordon
kubectl version
kubectl wait
kubectl Commands
kubectl
JSONPath Support
kubectl for Docker Users
kubectl Usage Conventions
Kubectl user preferences (kuberc)
Encodings
KYAML Reference
Component tools
Feature Gates
Feature Gates (removed)
kube-apiserver
kube-controller-manager
kube-proxy
kube-scheduler
kubelet
Debug cluster
Flow control
Configuration APIs
Client Authentication (v1)
Client Authentication (v1beta1)
Event Rate Limit Configuration (v1alpha1)
Image Policy API (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Admission (v1)
kube-apiserver Audit Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-apiserver Configuration (v1beta1)
kube-controller-manager Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-proxy Configuration (v1alpha1)
kube-scheduler Configuration (v1)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta3)
kubeadm Configuration (v1beta4)
kubeconfig (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1alpha1)
Kubelet Configuration (v1beta1)
Kubelet CredentialProvider (v1)
kuberc (v1alpha1)
kuberc (v1beta1)
WebhookAdmission Configuration (v1)
External APIs
Kubernetes Custom Metrics (v1beta2)
Kubernetes External Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1)
Kubernetes Metrics (v1beta1)
Kubelet APIs
Kubelet Summary API (v1alpha1)
Scheduling
Scheduler Configuration
Scheduling Policies
Other Tools
Contribute
Contribute to Kubernetes Documentation
Contributing to Kubernetes blogs
Submitting articles to Kubernetes blogs
Blog guidelines
Blog article mirroring
Post-release communications
Helping as a blog writing buddy
Suggesting content improvements
Contributing new content
Opening a pull request
Previewing locally
Documenting for a release
Case studies
Reviewing changes
Reviewing pull requests
For approvers and reviewers
Localizing Kubernetes documentation
Participating in SIG Docs
Roles and responsibilities
Issue Wranglers
PR wranglers
Documentation style overview
Content guide
Style guide
Diagram guide
Writing a new topic
Page content types
Content organization
Custom Hugo Shortcodes
Updating Reference Documentation
Quickstart
Release generation
Contributing to the Upstream Kubernetes Code
Generating Reference Documentation for the Kubernetes API
Generating Reference Documentation for Configuration APIs
Generating Reference Documentation for kubectl Commands
Generating Reference Documentation for Metrics
Generating Reference Pages for Kubernetes Components and Tools
Advanced contributing
Viewing Site Analytics
Docs smoke test page
Edit this page Third party content advice
Create child page
Create an issue
Print entire section
Before you begin
Using custom certificates
Choosing an encryption algorithm
Choosing certificate validity period
External CA mode Manual preparation of component credentials
Preparation of credentials by signing CSRs generated by kubeadm
Automated preparation of component credentials by using kubeadm phases
Certificate expiry and management
Automatic certificate renewal
Manual certificate renewal Copying the administrator certificate (optional)
Renew certificates with the Kubernetes certificates API Set up a signer
Create certificate signing requests (CSR)
Renew certificates with external CA Renewal by using certificate signing requests (CSR)
Certificate authority (CA) rotation
Enabling signed kubelet serving certificates
Generating kubeconfig files for additional users
Signing certificate signing requests (CSR) generated by kubeadm Preparing CA and service account files
Generate CSRs
Signing CSRs for all certificates
Embedding certificates in kubeconfig files
Performing cleanup
kubeadm node initialization
Kubernetes Documentation
Tasks
Administer a Cluster
Administration with kubeadm
Certificate Management with kubeadm
Certificate Management with kubeadm
Feature state:
Stable since Kubernetes v1.15
Client certificates generated by kubeadm expire after 1 year.
This page explains how to manage certificate renewals with kubeadm. It also covers other tasks related
to kubeadm certificate management.
The Kubernetes project recommends upgrading to the latest patch releases promptly, and
to ensure that you are running a supported minor release of Kubernetes.
Following this recommendation helps you to stay secure.
Before you begin
You should be familiar with PKI certificates and requirements in Kubernetes .
You should be familiar with how to pass a configuration file to the kubeadm commands.
This guide covers the usage of the openssl command (used for manual certificate signing,
if you choose that approach), but you can use your preferred tools.
Some of the steps here use sudo for administrator access. You can use any equivalent tool.
Using custom certificates
By default, kubeadm generates all the certificates needed for a cluster to run.
You can override this behavior by providing your own certificates.
To do so, you must place them in whatever directory is specified by the
--cert-dir flag or the certificatesDir field of kubeadm's ClusterConfiguration .
By default this is /etc/kubernetes/pki .
If a given certificate and private key pair exists before running kubeadm init ,
kubeadm does not overwrite them. This means you can, for example, copy an existing
CA into /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt and /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.key ,
and kubeadm will use this CA for signing the rest of the certificates.
Choosing an encryption algorithm
kubeadm allows you to choose an encryption algorithm that is used for creating
public and private keys. That can be done by using the encryptionAlgorithm field of the
kubeadm configuration:
apiVersion : kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta4
kind : ClusterConfiguration
encryptionAlgorithm : <ALGORITHM>
<ALGORITHM> can be one of RSA-2048 (default), RSA-3072 , RSA-4096 or ECDSA-P256 .
Choosing certificate validity period
kubeadm allows you to choose the validity period of CA and leaf certificates.
That can be done by using the certificateValidityPeriod and caCertificateValidityPeriod
fields of the kubeadm configuration:
apiVersion : kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta4
kind : ClusterConfiguration
certificateValidityPeriod: 8760h # Default : 365 days × 24 hours = 1 year
caCertificateValidityPeriod: 87600h # Default : 365 days × 24 hours * 10 = 10 years
The values of the fields follow the accepted format for
Go's time.Duration values , with the longest supported
unit being h (hours).
External CA mode
It is also possible to provide only the ca.crt file and not the
ca.key file (this is only available for the root CA file, not other cert pairs).
If all other certificates and kubeconfig files are in place, kubeadm recognizes
this condition and activates the "External CA" mode. kubeadm will proceed without the
CA key on disk.
Instead, run the controller-manager standalone with --controllers=csrsigner and
point to the CA certificate and key.
There are various ways to prepare the component credentials when using external CA mode.
Manual preparation of component credentials
PKI certificates and requirements includes information
on how to prepare all the required by kubeadm component credentials manually.
This guide covers the usage of the openssl command (used for manual certificate signing,
if you choose that approach), but you can use your preferred tools.
Preparation of credentials by signing CSRs generated by kubeadm
kubeadm can generate CSR files that you can sign manually with tools like
openssl and your external CA. These CSR files will include all the specification for credentials
that components deployed by kubeadm require.
Automated preparation of component credentials by using kubeadm phases
Alternatively, it is possible to use kubeadm phase commands to automate this process.
Go to a host that you want to prepare as a kubeadm control plane node with external CA.
Copy the external CA files ca.crt and ca.key that you have into /etc/kubernetes/pki on the node.
Prepare a temporary kubeadm configuration file
called config.yaml that can be used with kubeadm init . Make sure that this file includes
any relevant cluster wide or host-specific information that could be included in certificates, such as,
ClusterConfiguration.controlPlaneEndpoint , ClusterConfiguration.certSANs and InitConfiguration.APIEndpoint .
On the same host execute the commands kubeadm init phase kubeconfig all --config config.yaml and
kubeadm init phase certs all --config config.yaml . This will generate all required kubeconfig
files and certificates under /etc/kubernetes/ and its pki sub directory.
Inspect the generated files. Delete /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.key , delete or move to a safe location
the file /etc/kubernetes/super-admin.conf .
On nodes where kubeadm join will be called also delete /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.conf .
This file is only required on the first node where kubeadm init will be called.
Note that some files such pki/sa.* , pki/front-proxy-ca.* and pki/etc/ca.* are
shared between control plane nodes, You can generate them once and
distribute them manually
to nodes where kubeadm join will be called, or you can use the
--upload-certs
functionality of kubeadm init and --certificate-key of kubeadm join to automate this distribution.
Once the credentials are prepared on all nodes, call kubeadm init and kubeadm join for these nodes to
join the cluster. kubeadm will use the existing kubeconfig and certificate files under /etc/kubernetes/
and its pki sub directory.
Certificate expiry and management
Note:
kubeadm cannot manage certificates signed by an external CA.
You can use the check-expiration subcommand to check when certificates expire:
kubeadm certs check-expiration
The output is similar to this:
CERTIFICATE EXPIRES RESIDUAL TIME CERTIFICATE AUTHORITY EXTERNALLY MANAGED
admin.conf Dec 30, 2020 23:36 UTC 364d no
apiserver Dec 30, 2020 23:36 UTC 364d ca no
apiserver-etcd-client Dec 30, 2020 23:36 UTC 364d etcd-ca no
apiserver-kubelet-client Dec 30, 2020 23:36 UTC 364d ca no
controller-manager.conf Dec 30, 2020 23:36 UTC 364d no
etcd-healthcheck-client Dec 30, 2020 23:36 UTC 364d etcd-ca no
etcd-peer Dec 30, 2020 23:36 UTC 364d etcd-ca no
etcd-server Dec 30, 2020 23:36 UTC 364d etcd-ca no
front-proxy-client Dec 30, 2020 23:36 UTC 364d front-proxy-ca no
scheduler.conf Dec 30, 2020 23:36 UTC 364d no
CERTIFICATE AUTHORITY EXPIRES RESIDUAL TIME EXTERNALLY MANAGED
ca Dec 28, 2029 23:36 UTC 9y no
etcd-ca Dec 28, 2029 23:36 UTC 9y no
front-proxy-ca Dec 28, 2029 23:36 UTC 9y no
The command shows expiration/residual time for the client certificates in the
/etc/kubernetes/pki folder and for the client certificate embedded in the kubeconfig files used
by kubeadm ( admin.conf , controller-manager.conf and scheduler.conf ).
Additionally, kubeadm informs the user if the certificate is externally managed; in this case, the
user should take care of managing certificate renewal manually/using other tools.
The kubelet.conf configuration file is not included in the list above because kubeadm
configures kubelet
for automatic certificate renewal
with rotatable certificates under /var/lib/kubelet/pki .
To repair an expired kubelet client certificate see
Kubelet client certificate rotation fails .
Note:
On nodes created with kubeadm init from versions prior to kubeadm version 1.17, there is a
bug where you manually have to modify the
contents of kubelet.conf . After kubeadm init finishes, you should update kubelet.conf to
point to the rotated kubelet client certificates, by replacing client-certificate-data and
client-key-data with:
client-certificate : /var/lib/kubelet/pki/kubelet-client-current.pem
client-key : /var/lib/kubelet/pki/kubelet-client-current.pem
Automatic certificate renewal
kubeadm renews all the certificates during control plane
upgrade .
This feature is designed for addressing the simplest use cases;
if you don't have specific requirements on certificate renewal and perform Kubernetes version
upgrades regularly (less than 1 year in between each upgrade), kubeadm will take care of keeping
your cluster up to date and reasonably secure.
If you have more complex requirements for certificate renewal, you can opt out from the default
behavior by passing --certificate-renewal=false to kubeadm upgrade apply or to kubeadm upgrade node .
Manual certificate renewal
You can renew your certificates manually at any time with the kubeadm certs renew command,
with the appropriate command line options. If you are running cluster with a replicated control
plane, this command needs to be executed on all the control-plane nodes.
This command performs the renewal using CA (or front-proxy-CA) certificate and key stored in /etc/kubernetes/pki .
kubeadm certs renew uses the existing certificates as the authoritative source for attributes
(Common Name, Organization, subject alternative name) and does not rely on the kubeadm-config
ConfigMap.
Even so, the Kubernetes project recommends keeping the served certificate and the associated
values in that ConfigMap synchronized, to avoid any risk of confusion.
After running the command you should restart the control plane Pods. This is required since
dynamic certificate reload is currently not supported for all components and certificates.
Static Pods are managed by the local kubelet
and not by the API Server, thus kubectl cannot be used to delete and restart them.
To restart a static Pod you can temporarily remove its manifest file from /etc/kubernetes/manifests/
and wait for 20 seconds (see the fileCheckFrequency value in KubeletConfiguration struct ).
The kubelet will terminate the Pod if it's no longer in the manifest directory.
You can then move the file back and after another fileCheckFrequency period, the kubelet will recreate
the Pod and the certificate renewal for the component can complete.
kubeadm certs renew can renew any specific certificate or, with the subcommand all , it can renew all of them:
# If you are running cluster with a replicated control plane, this command
# needs to be executed on all the control-plane nodes.
kubeadm certs renew all
Copying the administrator certificate (optional)
Clusters built with kubeadm often copy the admin.conf certificate into
$HOME/.kube/config , as instructed in Creating a cluster with kubeadm .
On such a system, to update the contents of $HOME/.kube/config
after renewing the admin.conf , you could run the following commands:
sudo cp -i /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf $HOME /.kube/config
sudo chown $( id -u ) : $( id -g ) $HOME /.kube/config
Renew certificates with the Kubernetes certificates API
This section provides more details about how to execute manual certificate renewal using the Kubernetes certificates API.
Caution:
These are advanced topics for users who need to integrate their organization's certificate
infrastructure into a kubeadm-built cluster. If the default kubeadm configuration satisfies your
needs, you should let kubeadm manage certificates instead.
Set up a signer
The Kubernetes Certificate Authority does not work out of the box.
You can configure an external signer such as cert-manager ,
or you can use the built-in signer.
The built-in signer is part of kube-controller-manager .
To activate the built-in signer, you must pass the --cluster-signing-cert-file and
--cluster-signing-key-file flags.
If you're creating a new cluster, you can use a kubeadm
configuration file :
apiVersion : kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta4
kind : ClusterConfiguration
controllerManager :
extraArgs :
- name : "cluster-signing-cert-file"
value : "/etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt"
- name : "cluster-signing-key-file"
value : "/etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.key"
Create certificate signing requests (CSR)
See Create CertificateSigningRequest
for creating CSRs with the Kubernetes API.
Renew certificates with external CA
This section provide more details about how to execute manual certificate renewal using an external CA.
To better integrate with external CAs, kubeadm can also produce certificate signing requests (CSRs).
A CSR represents a request to a CA for a signed certificate for a client.
In kubeadm terms, any certificate that would normally be signed by an on-disk CA can be produced
as a CSR instead. A CA, however, cannot be produced as a CSR.
Renewal by using certificate signing requests (CSR)
Renewal of ceritficates is possible by generating new CSRs and signing them with the external CA.
For more details about working with CSRs generated by kubeadm see the section
Signing certificate signing requests (CSR) generated by kubeadm .
Certificate authority (CA) rotation
Kubeadm does not support rotation or replacement of CA certificates out of the box.
For more information about manual rotation or replacement of CA, see manual rotation of CA certificates .
Enabling signed kubelet serving certificates
By default the kubelet serving certificate deployed by kubeadm is self-signed.
This means a connection from external services like the
metrics-server to a
kubelet cannot be secured with TLS.
To configure the kubelets in a new kubeadm cluster to obtain properly signed serving
certificates you must pass the following minimal configuration to kubeadm init :
apiVersion : kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta4
kind : ClusterConfiguration
---
apiVersion : kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind : KubeletConfiguration
serverTLSBootstrap : true
If you have already created the cluster you must adapt it by doing the following:
Find and edit the kubelet-config ConfigMap in the kube-system namespace.
In that ConfigMap, the kubelet key has a
KubeletConfiguration
document as its value. Edit the KubeletConfiguration document to set serverTLSBootstrap: true .
On each node, add the serverTLSBootstrap: true field in /var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml
and restart the kubelet with systemctl restart kubelet
The field serverTLSBootstrap: true will enable the bootstrap of kubelet serving
certificates by requesting them from the certificates.k8s.io API. One known limitation
is that the CSRs (Certificate Signing Requests) for these certificates cannot be automatically
approved by the default signer in the kube-controller-manager -
kubernetes.io/kubelet-serving .
This will require action from the user or a third party controller.
These CSRs can be viewed using:
kubectl get csr
NAME AGE SIGNERNAME REQUESTOR CONDITION
csr-9wvgt 112s kubernetes.io/kubelet-serving system:node:worker-1 Pending
csr-lz97v 1m58s kubernetes.io/kubelet-serving system:node:control-plane-1 Pending
To approve them you can do the following:
kubectl certificate approve <CSR-name>
By default, these serving certificate will expire after one year. Kubeadm sets the
KubeletConfiguration field rotateCertificates to true , which means that close
to expiration a new set of CSRs for the serving certificates will be created and must
be approved to complete the rotation. To understand more see
Certificate Rotation .
If you are looking for a solution for automatic approval of these CSRs it is recommended
that you contact your cloud provider and ask if they have a CSR signer that verifies
the node identity with an out of band mechanism.
Note:  This section links to third party projects that provide functionality required by Kubernetes. The Kubernetes project authors aren't responsible for these projects, which are listed alphabetically. To add a project to this list, read the content guide before submitting a change. More information.
Third party custom controllers can be used:
kubelet-csr-approver
Such a controller is not a secure mechanism unless it not only verifies the CommonName
in the CSR but also verifies the requested IPs and domain names. This would prevent
a malicious actor that has access to a kubelet client certificate to create
CSRs requesting serving certificates for any IP or domain name.
Generating kubeconfig files for additional users
During cluster creation, kubeadm init signs the certificate in the super-admin.conf
to have Subject: O = system:masters, CN = kubernetes-super-admin .
system:masters
is a break-glass, super user group that bypasses the authorization layer (for example,
RBAC ). The file admin.conf is also created
by kubeadm on control plane nodes and it contains a certificate with
Subject: O = kubeadm:cluster-admins, CN = kubernetes-admin . kubeadm:cluster-admins
is a group logically belonging to kubeadm. If your cluster uses RBAC
(the kubeadm default), the kubeadm:cluster-admins group is bound to the
cluster-admin ClusterRole.
Warning:
Avoid sharing the super-admin.conf or admin.conf files. Instead, create least
privileged access even for people who work as administrators and use that least
privilege alternative for anything other than break-glass (emergency) access.
You can use the kubeadm kubeconfig user
command to generate kubeconfig files for additional users.
The command accepts a mixture of command line flags and
kubeadm configuration options.
The generated kubeconfig will be written to stdout and can be piped to a file using
kubeadm kubeconfig user ... > somefile.conf .
Example configuration file that can be used with --config :
# example.yaml
apiVersion : kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta4
kind : ClusterConfiguration
# Will be used as the target "cluster" in the kubeconfig
clusterName : "kubernetes"
# Will be used as the "server" (IP or DNS name) of this cluster in the kubeconfig
controlPlaneEndpoint : "some-dns-address:6443"
# The cluster CA key and certificate will be loaded from this local directory
certificatesDir : "/etc/kubernetes/pki"
Make sure that these settings match the desired target cluster settings.
To see the settings of an existing cluster use:
kubectl get cm kubeadm-config -n kube-system -o = jsonpath = "{.data.ClusterConfiguration}"
The following example will generate a kubeconfig file with credentials valid for 24 hours
for a new user johndoe that is part of the appdevs group:
kubeadm kubeconfig user --config example.yaml --org appdevs --client-name johndoe --validity-period 24h
The following example will generate a kubeconfig file with administrator credentials valid for 1 week:
kubeadm kubeconfig user --config example.yaml --client-name admin --validity-period 168h
Signing certificate signing requests (CSR) generated by kubeadm
You can create certificate signing requests with kubeadm certs generate-csr .
Calling this command will generate .csr / .key file pairs for regular
certificates. For certificates embedded in kubeconfig files, the command will
generate a .csr / .conf pair where the key is already embedded in the .conf file.
A CSR file contains all relevant information for a CA to sign a certificate.
kubeadm uses a
well defined specification
for all its certificates and CSRs.
The default certificate directory is /etc/kubernetes/pki , while the default
directory for kubeconfig files is /etc/kubernetes . These defaults can be
overridden with the flags --cert-dir and --kubeconfig-dir , respectively.
To pass custom options to kubeadm certs generate-csr use the --config flag,
which accepts a kubeadm configuration
file, similarly to commands such as kubeadm init . Any specification such
as extra SANs and custom IP addresses must be stored in the same configuration
file and used for all relevant kubeadm commands by passing it as --config .
Note:
This guide uses the default Kubernetes directory /etc/kubernetes , which requires
a super user. If you are following this guide and are using directories that you can
write to (typically, this means running kubeadm with --cert-dir and --kubeconfig-dir )
then you can omit the sudo command.
You must then copy the files that you produced over to within the /etc/kubernetes
directory so that kubeadm init or kubeadm join will find them.
Preparing CA and service account files
On the primary control plane node, where kubeadm init will be executed, call the following
commands:
sudo kubeadm init phase certs ca
sudo kubeadm init phase certs etcd-ca
sudo kubeadm init phase certs front-proxy-ca
sudo kubeadm init phase certs sa
This will populate the folders /etc/kubernetes/pki and /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd
with all self-signed CA files (certificates and keys) and service account (public and
private keys) that kubeadm needs for a control plane node.
Note:
If you are using an external CA, you must generate the same files out of band and manually
copy them to the primary control plane node in /etc/kubernetes .
Once all CSRs are signed, you can delete the root CA key ( ca.key ) as noted in the
External CA mode section.
For secondary control plane nodes ( kubeadm join --control-plane ) there is no need to call
the above commands. Depending on how you setup the
High Availability
cluster, you either have to manually copy the same files from the primary
control plane node, or use the automated --upload-certs functionality of kubeadm init .
Generate CSRs
The kubeadm certs generate-csr command generates CSRs for all known certificates
managed by kubeadm. Once the command is done you must manually delete .csr , .conf
or .key files that you don't need.
Considerations for kubelet.conf
This section applies to both control plane and worker nodes.
If you have deleted the ca.key file from control plane nodes
( External CA mode ), the active kube-controller-manager in
this cluster will not be able to sign kubelet client certificates. If no external
method for signing these certificates exists in your setup (such as an
external signer ), you could manually sign the kubelet.conf.csr
as explained in this guide.
Note that this also means that the automatic
kubelet client certificate rotation
will be disabled. If so, close to certificate expiration, you must generate
a new kubelet.conf.csr , sign the certificate, embed it in kubelet.conf
and restart the kubelet.
If this does not apply to your setup, you can skip processing the kubelet.conf.csr
on secondary control plane and on workers nodes (all nodes that call kubeadm join ... ).
That is because the active kube-controller-manager will be responsible
for signing new kubelet client certificates.
Note:
You must process the kubelet.conf.csr file on the primary control plane node
(the host where you originally ran kubeadm init ). This is because kubeadm
considers that as the node that bootstraps the cluster, and a pre-populated
kubelet.conf is needed.
Control plane nodes
Execute the following command on primary ( kubeadm init ) and secondary
( kubeadm join --control-plane ) control plane nodes to generate all CSR files:
sudo kubeadm certs generate-csr
If external etcd is to be used, follow the
External etcd with kubeadm
guide to understand what CSR files are needed on the kubeadm and etcd nodes. Other
.csr and .key files under /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd can be removed.
Based on the explanation in
Considerations for kubelet.conf keep or delete
the kubelet.conf and kubelet.conf.csr files.
Worker nodes
Based on the explanation in
Considerations for kubelet.conf , optionally call:
sudo kubeadm certs generate-csr
and keep only the kubelet.conf and kubelet.conf.csr files. Alternatively skip
the steps for worker nodes entirely.
Signing CSRs for all certificates
Note:
If you are using external CA and already have CA serial number files ( .srl ) for
openssl , you can copy such files to a kubeadm node where CSRs will be processed.
The .srl files to copy are /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.srl ,
/etc/kubernetes/pki/front-proxy-ca.srl and /etc/kubernetes/pki/etcd/ca.srl .
The files can be then moved to a new node where CSR files will be processed.
If a .srl file is missing for a CA on a node, the script below will generate a new SRL file
with a random starting serial number.
To read more about .srl files see the
openssl
documentation for the --CAserial flag.
Repeat this step for all nodes that have CSR files.
Write the following script in the /etc/kubernetes directory, navigate to the directory
and execute the script. The script will generate certificates for all CSR files that are
present in the /etc/kubernetes tree.
#!/bin/bash
# Set certificate expiration time in days
DAYS = 365
# Process all CSR files except those for front-proxy and etcd
find ./ -name "*.csr" | grep -v "pki/etcd" | grep -v "front-proxy" | while read -r FILE ;
do
echo "* Processing ${ FILE } ..."
FILE = ${ FILE %.* } # Trim the extension
if [ -f "./pki/ca.srl" ] ; then
SERIAL_FLAG = "-CAserial ./pki/ca.srl"
else
SERIAL_FLAG = "-CAcreateserial"
fi
openssl x509 -req -days " ${ DAYS } " -CA ./pki/ca.crt -CAkey ./pki/ca.key ${ SERIAL_FLAG } \
-in " ${ FILE } .csr" -out " ${ FILE } .crt"
sleep 2
done
# Process all etcd CSRs
find ./pki/etcd -name "*.csr" | while read -r FILE ;
do
echo "* Processing ${ FILE } ..."
FILE = ${ FILE %.* } # Trim the extension
if [ -f "./pki/etcd/ca.srl" ] ; then
SERIAL_FLAG = -CAserial ./pki/etcd/ca.srl
else
SERIAL_FLAG = -CAcreateserial
fi
openssl x509 -req -days " ${ DAYS } " -CA ./pki/etcd/ca.crt -CAkey ./pki/etcd/ca.key ${ SERIAL_FLAG } \
-in " ${ FILE } .csr" -out " ${ FILE } .crt"
done
# Process front-proxy CSRs
echo "* Processing ./pki/front-proxy-client.csr ..."
openssl x509 -req -days " ${ DAYS } " -CA ./pki/front-proxy-ca.crt -CAkey ./pki/front-proxy-ca.key -CAcreateserial \
-in ./pki/front-proxy-client.csr -out ./pki/front-proxy-client.crt
Embedding certificates in kubeconfig files
Repeat this step for all nodes that have CSR files.
Write the following script in the /etc/kubernetes directory, navigate to the directory
and execute the script. The script will take the .crt files that were signed for
kubeconfig files from CSRs in the previous step and will embed them in the kubeconfig files.
#!/bin/bash
CLUSTER = kubernetes
find ./ -name "*.conf" | while read -r FILE ;
do
echo "* Processing ${ FILE } ..."
KUBECONFIG = " ${ FILE } " kubectl config set-cluster " ${ CLUSTER } " --certificate-authority ./pki/ca.crt --embed-certs
USER = $( KUBECONFIG = " ${ FILE } " kubectl config view -o jsonpath = '{.users[0].name}' )
KUBECONFIG = " ${ FILE } " kubectl config set-credentials " ${ USER } " --client-certificate " ${ FILE } .crt" --embed-certs
done
Performing cleanup
Perform this step on all nodes that have CSR files.
Write the following script in the /etc/kubernetes directory, navigate to the directory
and execute the script.
#!/bin/bash
# Cleanup CSR files
rm -f ./*.csr ./pki/*.csr ./pki/etcd/*.csr # Clean all CSR files
# Cleanup CRT files that were already embedded in kubeconfig files
rm -f ./*.crt
Optionally, move .srl files to the next node to be processed.
Optionally, if using external CA remove the /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.key file,
as explained in the External CA node section.
kubeadm node initialization
Once CSR files have been signed and required certificates are in place on the hosts
you want to use as nodes, you can use the commands kubeadm init and kubeadm join
to create a Kubernetes cluster from these nodes. During init and join , kubeadm
uses existing certificates, encryption keys and kubeconfig files that it finds in the
/etc/kubernetes tree on the host's local filesystem.
Feedback
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No Thanks for the feedback. If you have a specific, answerable question about how to use Kubernetes, ask it on
Stack Overflow .
Open an issue in the GitHub Repository if you want to
report a problem
or
suggest an improvement .
Last modified September 11, 2025 at 8:07 AM PST: Update legacy kubelet configmap name and modify typo in kubeadm-certs.md (#52012) (05cb3dccc7)
Items on this page refer to third party products or projects that provide functionality required by Kubernetes. The Kubernetes project authors aren't responsible for those third-party products or projects. See the CNCF website guidelines for more details.
You should read the content guide before proposing a change that adds an extra third-party link.
© 2026 The Kubernetes Authors | Documentation Distributed under CC BY 4.0
© 2026 Copyright © Kubernetes a Series of LF Projects, LLC. For website terms of use, trademark policy and other project policies please see https://lfprojects.org/policies/
ICP license: 京ICP备17074266号-3