NTRS
NTRS - NASA Technical Reports Server

Search

more_vert
Collections About News Help Login

Press Enter or click the Search button to begin your search.

Back to Results Gallium arsenide processing for gate array logic The development of a reliable and reproducible GaAs process was initiated for applications in gate array logic. Gallium Arsenide is an extremely important material for high speed electronic applications in both digital and analog circuits since its electron mobility is 3 to 5 times that of silicon, this allows for faster switching times for devices fabricated with it. Unfortunately GaAs is an extremely difficult material to process with respect to silicon and since it includes the arsenic component GaAs can be quite dangerous (toxic) especially during some heating steps. The first stage of the research was directed at developing a simple process to produce GaAs MESFETs. The MESFET (MEtal Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor) is the most useful, practical and simple active device which can be fabricated in GaAs. It utilizes an ohmic source and drain contact separated by a Schottky gate. The gate width is typically a few microns. Several process steps were required to produce a good working device including ion implantation, photolithography, thermal annealing, and metal deposition. A process was designed to reduce the total number of steps to a minimum so as to reduce possible errors. The first run produced no good devices. The problem occurred during an aluminum etch step while defining the gate contacts. It was found that the chemical etchant attacked the GaAs causing trenching and subsequent severing of the active gate region from the rest of the device. Thus all devices appeared as open circuits. This problem is being corrected and since it was the last step in the process correction should be successful. The second planned stage involves the circuit assembly of the discrete MESFETs into logic gates for test and analysis. Finally the third stage is to incorporate the designed process with the tested circuit in a layout that would produce the gate array as a GaAs integrated circuit. Document ID
19910016619

Acquisition Source
Legacy CDMS

Document Type
Conference Paper

Authors

Cole, Eric D. (George Mason Univ. Fairfax, VA, United States)

Date Acquired
September 6, 2013

Publication Date
September 1, 1989

Publication Information
Publication: Maryland Univ., The 1989 NASA-ASEE Summer Faculty Fellowship Program in Aeronautics and Research

Subject Category

Solid-State Physics

Accession Number
91N25933

Distribution Limits
Public

Copyright
Work of the US Gov. Public Use Permitted.

Available Downloads
There are no available downloads for this record.

Related Records
ID Relation Title 19910016600 Collected Works The 1989 NASA-ASEE Summer Faculty Fellowship Program in Aeronautics and Research
visibility_off No Preview Available

No Fear Act | Freedom of Information Act | Office of the Inspector General | Agency Financial Reports
NASA Web Privacy Policy and Important Notices | NASA Guidelines for Quality of Information
Disclaimers, Copyright, Terms of Use | Accessibility | NASA OCIO | USA.gov | NASA.gov
Contact Us | Site Map

NASA Official: JoAnne R. Calhoun
Site Curator: STI Compliance and Distribution Services
Last Modified: September 21, 2026