SP 800-60 Vol. 1 Rev. 1, Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories | CSRC
You are viewing this page in an unauthorized frame window.
This is a potential security issue, you are being redirected to  https://csrc.nist.gov .
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov  website belongs to an official government
organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock  (
) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
secure websites.
Search
Search
CSRC MENU
Search
Search
Projects
Publications
Expand or Collapse
Drafts for Public Comment
All Public Drafts
Final Pubs
FIPS  (standards)
Special Publications (SP s )
IR  (interagency/internal reports)
CSWP  (cybersecurity white papers)
ITL Bulletins
Project Descriptions
Journal Articles
Conference Papers
Books
Topics
Expand or Collapse
Security & Privacy
Applications
Technologies
Sectors
Laws & Regulations
Activities & Products
News & Updates
Events
Glossary
About CSRC
Expand or Collapse
Computer Security Division
Cryptographic Technology
Software Security Group
Hardware Security Group
Security Engineering and Risk Management
Applied Cybersecurity Division
Cybersecurity and Privacy Applications
National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE)
National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE)
Contact Us
Information Technology Laboratory
Computer Security Resource Center
Publications
NIST SP 800-60 Vol. 1 Rev. 1
Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories
Share to Facebook
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share ia Email
Documentation
Topics
Date Published:   August 2008
Supersedes:
SP 800-60 Vol. 1 (06/10/2004)
Author(s)
Kevin Stine (NIST)
,                          Richard Kissel (NIST)
,                          William Barker (NIST)
,                          Jim Fahlsing (SAIC)
,                          Jessica Gulick (SAIC)
Abstract
Title III of the E-Government Act, titled the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002, tasked NIST to develop (1) standards to be used by all Federal agencies to categorize information and information systems collected or maintained by or on behalf of each agency based on the objectives of providing appropriate levels of information security according to a range of risk levels; and (2) guidelines recommending the types of information and information systems to be included in each such category. Special Publication 800-60 was issued in response to the second of these tasks. The revision to Volume I contains the basic guidelines for mapping types of information and information systems to security categories. The appendices contained in Volume I include security categorization recommendations and rationale for mission-based and management and support information types.
Title III of the E-Government Act, titled the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002, tasked NIST to develop (1) standards to be used by all Federal agencies to categorize information and information systems collected or maintained by or on behalf of each agency based on the...
See full abstract
Title III of the E-Government Act, titled the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002, tasked NIST to develop (1) standards to be used by all Federal agencies to categorize information and information systems collected or maintained by or on behalf of each agency based on the objectives of providing appropriate levels of information security according to a range of risk levels; and (2) guidelines recommending the types of information and information systems to be included in each such category. Special Publication 800-60 was issued in response to the second of these tasks. The revision to Volume I contains the basic guidelines for mapping types of information and information systems to security categories. The appendices contained in Volume I include security categorization recommendations and rationale for mission-based and management and support information types.
Hide full abstract
Keywords
computer security
;                                  cyber security
;                                  FISMA
;                                  categorization
;                                  information type
;                                  security category
Control Families
Program Management
;                              Risk Assessment
Documentation
Publication:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-60v1r1
Download URL
Supplemental Material:
None available
Publication Volumes:
SP 800-60 Vol. 2 Rev. 1
Document History:
08/01/08:  SP 800-60 Vol. 1 Rev. 1 (Final)
Topics
Security and Privacy
risk assessment
Laws and Regulations
Federal Information Security Modernization Act ,                                  Homeland Security Presidential Directive 7
HEADQUARTERS
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg, MD 20899
X
(link is external)
facebook
(link is external)
linkedin
(link is external)
instagram
(link is external)
youtube
(link is external)
rss
govdelivery
(link is external)
Want updates about CSRC and our publications?
Subscribe
Contact Us  |
Our Other Offices
Send inquiries to   [email protected]
Site Privacy
Accessibility
Privacy Program
Copyrights
Vulnerability Disclosure
No Fear Act Policy
FOIA
Environmental Policy
Scientific Integrity
Information Quality Standards
Commerce.gov
Science.gov
USA.gov
Vote.gov