SP 800-18 Rev. 2, Developing Security, Privacy, and Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Plans for Systems | CSRC
You are viewing this page in an unauthorized frame window.
This is a potential security issue, you are being redirected to  https://csrc.nist.gov .
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov  website belongs to an official government
organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock  (
) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
secure websites.
Search
Search
CSRC MENU
Search
Search
Projects
Publications
Expand or Collapse
Drafts for Public Comment
All Public Drafts
Final Pubs
FIPS  (standards)
Special Publications (SP s )
IR  (interagency/internal reports)
CSWP  (cybersecurity white papers)
ITL Bulletins
Project Descriptions
Journal Articles
Conference Papers
Books
Topics
Expand or Collapse
Security & Privacy
Applications
Technologies
Sectors
Laws & Regulations
Activities & Products
News & Updates
Events
Glossary
About CSRC
Expand or Collapse
Computer Security Division
Cryptographic Technology
Software Security Group
Hardware Security Group
Security Engineering and Risk Management
Applied Cybersecurity Division
Cybersecurity and Privacy Applications
National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE)
National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE)
Contact Us
Information Technology Laboratory
Computer Security Resource Center
Publications
NIST SP 800-18 Rev. 2
Developing Security, Privacy, and Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Plans for Systems
Share to Facebook
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share ia Email
Documentation
Topics
Date Published:   June 2026
Supersedes:
SP 800-18 Rev. 1 (02/24/2006)
Author(s)
Jeremy Licata (NIST)
,                          Rebecca McWhite (NIST)
,                          Laura Calloway (NIST)
,                          Dylan Gilbert (NIST)
,                          Meghan Anderson (NIST)
,                          Julie Snyder (MITRE)
,                          Jeremy Miller (MITRE)
Abstract
The system security plan, system privacy plan, and cybersecurity supply chain risk management plan are collectively referred to as system plans. They describe the purpose of the system, the operational status of the controls selected and allocated for meeting risk management requirements, and the responsibilities and expected behavior of all individuals who manage, support, and access the system. This publication identifies essential elements of system plans from security, privacy, and cybersecurity supply chain risk management perspectives to promote consistent information collection across the organization, regardless of the system’s mission or business function.
The system security plan, system privacy plan, and cybersecurity supply chain risk management plan are collectively referred to as system plans. They describe the purpose of the system, the operational status of the controls selected and allocated for meeting risk management requirements, and the...
See full abstract
The system security plan, system privacy plan, and cybersecurity supply chain risk management plan are collectively referred to as system plans. They describe the purpose of the system, the operational status of the controls selected and allocated for meeting risk management requirements, and the responsibilities and expected behavior of all individuals who manage, support, and access the system. This publication identifies essential elements of system plans from security, privacy, and cybersecurity supply chain risk management perspectives to promote consistent information collection across the organization, regardless of the system’s mission or business function.
Hide full abstract
Keywords
authorization boundary
;                                  authorizing official
;                                  common control authorization
;                                  control implementation details
;                                  cybersecurity supply chain risk management plan
;                                  privacy plan
;                                  privacy risk management
;                                  risk management framework
;                                  security plan
;                                  security risk management
;                                  authorization to operate
;                                  authorization to use
;                                  authorizing official designated representative
;                                  CASES Act
;                                  control implementation
;                                  controls
;                                  FASCSA
;                                  FISMA
;                                  ongoing authorization
;                                  Privacy Act
;                                  privacy plan
;                                  supply chain
;                                  supply chain risk management
;                                  system privacy plan
;                                  system security plan
;                                  system owner
Control Families
None selected
Documentation
Publication:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-18r2
Download URL
Supplemental Material:
Security Plan Example Outline  (docx)
Privacy Plan Example Outline  (docx)
C-SCRM Plan Example Outline  (docx)
System Plan-related Roles and Responsibilities  (docx)
NIST Risk Management Framework
Document History:
06/04/25:  SP 800-18 Rev. 2 (Draft)
06/30/26:  SP 800-18 Rev. 2 (Final)
Topics
Security and Privacy
access authorization ,                                  authentication ,                                  cybersecurity supply chain risk management ,                                  planning ,                                  privacy ,                                  risk management
Laws and Regulations
Federal Information Security Modernization Act ,                                  OMB Circular A-130
HEADQUARTERS
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg, MD 20899
X
(link is external)
facebook
(link is external)
linkedin
(link is external)
instagram
(link is external)
youtube
(link is external)
rss
govdelivery
(link is external)
Want updates about CSRC and our publications?
Subscribe
Contact Us  |
Our Other Offices
Send inquiries to   [email protected]
Site Privacy
Accessibility
Privacy Program
Copyrights
Vulnerability Disclosure
No Fear Act Policy
FOIA
Environmental Policy
Scientific Integrity
Information Quality Standards
Commerce.gov
Science.gov
USA.gov
Vote.gov