SP 800-18 Rev. 1, Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems | CSRC
You are viewing this page in an unauthorized frame window.
This is a potential security issue, you are being redirected to  https://csrc.nist.gov .
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov  website belongs to an official government
organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock  (
) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
secure websites.
Search
Search
CSRC MENU
Search
Search
Projects
Publications
Expand or Collapse
Drafts for Public Comment
All Public Drafts
Final Pubs
FIPS  (standards)
Special Publications (SP s )
IR  (interagency/internal reports)
CSWP  (cybersecurity white papers)
ITL Bulletins
Project Descriptions
Journal Articles
Conference Papers
Books
Topics
Expand or Collapse
Security & Privacy
Applications
Technologies
Sectors
Laws & Regulations
Activities & Products
News & Updates
Events
Glossary
About CSRC
Expand or Collapse
Computer Security Division
Cryptographic Technology
Software Security Group
Hardware Security Group
Security Engineering and Risk Management
Applied Cybersecurity Division
Cybersecurity and Privacy Applications
National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE)
National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE)
Contact Us
Information Technology Laboratory
Computer Security Resource Center
Publications
NIST SP 800-18 Rev. 1
Withdrawn on  June 30, 2026
.
Superseded by
SP 800-18 Rev. 2
Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems
Share to Facebook
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share ia Email
Documentation
Topics
Date Published:   February 2006
Supersedes:
SP 800-18 (12/01/1998)
Author(s)
Marianne Swanson (NIST)
,                          Joan Hash (NIST)
,                          Pauline Bowen (NIST)
Abstract
The objective of system security planning is to improve protection of information system resources. All federal systems have some level of sensitivity and require protection as part of good management practice. The protection of a system must be documented in a system security plan. The completion of system security plans is a requirement of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, "Management of Federal Information Resources," Appendix III, "Security of Federal Automated Information Resources," and Title III of the E-Government Act, entitled the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), The purpose of the system security plan is to provide an overview of the security requirements of the system and describe the controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. The system security plan also delineates responsibilities and expected behavior of all individuals who access the system. The system security plan should be viewed as documentation of the structured process of planning adequate, cost-effective security protection for a system. It should reflect input from various managers with responsibilities concerning the system, including information owners, the system owner, and the senior agency information security officer (SAISO). Additional information may be included in the basic plan and the structure and format organized according to agency needs, so long as the major sections described in this document are adequately covered and readily identifiable.
The objective of system security planning is to improve protection of information system resources. All federal systems have some level of sensitivity and require protection as part of good management practice. The protection of a system must be documented in a system security plan. The completion...
See full abstract
The objective of system security planning is to improve protection of information system resources. All federal systems have some level of sensitivity and require protection as part of good management practice. The protection of a system must be documented in a system security plan. The completion of system security plans is a requirement of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, "Management of Federal Information Resources," Appendix III, "Security of Federal Automated Information Resources," and Title III of the E-Government Act, entitled the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA), The purpose of the system security plan is to provide an overview of the security requirements of the system and describe the controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements. The system security plan also delineates responsibilities and expected behavior of all individuals who access the system. The system security plan should be viewed as documentation of the structured process of planning adequate, cost-effective security protection for a system. It should reflect input from various managers with responsibilities concerning the system, including information owners, the system owner, and the senior agency information security officer (SAISO). Additional information may be included in the basic plan and the structure and format organized according to agency needs, so long as the major sections described in this document are adequately covered and readily identifiable.
Hide full abstract
Keywords
Authorize processing
;                                  computer security
;                                  general support system
;                                  major application
;                                  management controls
;                                  operational controls
;                                  rules of behavior
;                                  security plan
;                                  technical controls
Control Families
Assessment, Authorization and Monitoring
;                              Planning
Documentation
Publication:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-18r1
Download URL
Supplemental Material:
None available
Document History:
02/24/06:  SP 800-18 Rev. 1 (Final)
Topics
Security and Privacy
audit & accountability ,                                  planning ,                                  risk management
Laws and Regulations
Federal Information Security Modernization Act ,                                  Homeland Security Presidential Directive 7 ,                                  OMB Circular A-130
HEADQUARTERS
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg, MD 20899
X
(link is external)
facebook
(link is external)
linkedin
(link is external)
instagram
(link is external)
youtube
(link is external)
rss
govdelivery
(link is external)
Want updates about CSRC and our publications?
Subscribe
Contact Us  |
Our Other Offices
Send inquiries to   [email protected]
Site Privacy
Accessibility
Privacy Program
Copyrights
Vulnerability Disclosure
No Fear Act Policy
FOIA
Environmental Policy
Scientific Integrity
Information Quality Standards
Commerce.gov
Science.gov
USA.gov
Vote.gov