SP 800-53A Rev. 5, Assessing Security and Privacy Controls in Information Systems and Organizations | CSRC
You are viewing this page in an unauthorized frame window.
This is a potential security issue, you are being redirected to  https://csrc.nist.gov .
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov  website belongs to an official government
organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock  (
) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
secure websites.
Search
Search
CSRC MENU
Search
Search
Projects
Publications
Expand or Collapse
Drafts for Public Comment
All Public Drafts
Final Pubs
FIPS  (standards)
Special Publications (SP s )
IR  (interagency/internal reports)
CSWP  (cybersecurity white papers)
ITL Bulletins
Project Descriptions
Journal Articles
Conference Papers
Books
Topics
Expand or Collapse
Security & Privacy
Applications
Technologies
Sectors
Laws & Regulations
Activities & Products
News & Updates
Events
Glossary
About CSRC
Expand or Collapse
Computer Security Division
Cryptographic Technology
Software Security Group
Hardware Security Group
Security Engineering and Risk Management
Applied Cybersecurity Division
Cybersecurity and Privacy Applications
National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE)
National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE)
Contact Us
Information Technology Laboratory
Computer Security Resource Center
Publications
NIST SP 800-53A Rev. 5
Assessing Security and Privacy Controls in Information Systems and Organizations
Share to Facebook
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share ia Email
Documentation
Topics
Date Published:   January 2022
Supersedes:
SP 800-53A Rev. 4 (12/18/2014)
Planning Note ( 08/27/2025
):
On August 27, 2025, NIST issued a minor release of  SP 800-53A (Release 5.2.0)  that includes the following changes:
New Assessment Procedures: SA-15(13), SA-24, SI-02(07)
***
As stakeholders use NIST SP 800-53A and its derivative data formats, updates are identified to improve the quality of the publication.  Updates can include corrections, clarifications, or other minor changes in the publication that are either editorial or substantive in nature. Any potential updates for SP 800-53A and its derivative data formats that are not yet published in an errata update or revision—including additional issues and potential corrections—will be posted as they are identified.  Please report any potential updates to   [email protected]
.
Author(s)
Joint Task Force
Abstract
This publication provides a methodology and set of procedures for conducting assessments of security and privacy controls employed within systems and organizations within an effective risk management framework. The assessment procedures, executed at various phases of the system development life cycle, are consistent with the security and privacy controls in NIST Special Publication 800-53, Revision 5. The procedures are customizable and can be easily tailored to provide organizations with the needed flexibility to conduct security and privacy control assessments that support organizational risk management processes and are aligned with the stated risk tolerance of the organization. Information on building effective security and privacy assessment plans is also provided with guidance on analyzing assessment results.
This publication provides a methodology and set of procedures for conducting assessments of security and privacy controls employed within systems and organizations within an effective risk management framework. The assessment procedures, executed at various phases of the system development life...
See full abstract
This publication provides a methodology and set of procedures for conducting assessments of security and privacy controls employed within systems and organizations within an effective risk management framework. The assessment procedures, executed at various phases of the system development life cycle, are consistent with the security and privacy controls in NIST Special Publication 800-53, Revision 5. The procedures are customizable and can be easily tailored to provide organizations with the needed flexibility to conduct security and privacy control assessments that support organizational risk management processes and are aligned with the stated risk tolerance of the organization. Information on building effective security and privacy assessment plans is also provided with guidance on analyzing assessment results.
Hide full abstract
Keywords
assessment
;                                  assessment plan
;                                  assurance
;                                  control assessment
;                                  FISMA
;                                  Privacy Act
;                                  privacy controls
;                                  Open Security Controls Assessment Language
;                                  OSCAL
;                                  privacy requirements
;                                  Risk Management Framework
;                                  security controls
;                                  security requirements
Control Families
None selected
Documentation
Publication:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-53Ar5
Download URL
Supplemental Material:
SP 800-53A Release 5.2.0
OSCAL GitHub
Publication Parts:
SP 800-53B
SP 800-53 Rev. 5
Document History:
08/03/21:  SP 800-53A Rev. 5 (Draft)
01/25/22:  SP 800-53A Rev. 5 (Final)
Topics
Security and Privacy
controls assessment
Laws and Regulations
Executive Order 14306 ,                                  Federal Information Security Modernization Act
HEADQUARTERS
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg, MD 20899
X
(link is external)
facebook
(link is external)
linkedin
(link is external)
instagram
(link is external)
youtube
(link is external)
rss
govdelivery
(link is external)
Want updates about CSRC and our publications?
Subscribe
Contact Us  |
Our Other Offices
Send inquiries to   [email protected]
Site Privacy
Accessibility
Privacy Program
Copyrights
Vulnerability Disclosure
No Fear Act Policy
FOIA
Environmental Policy
Scientific Integrity
Information Quality Standards
Commerce.gov
Science.gov
USA.gov
Vote.gov