SP 800-53B, Control Baselines for Information Systems and Organizations | CSRC
You are viewing this page in an unauthorized frame window.
This is a potential security issue, you are being redirected to  https://csrc.nist.gov .
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov  website belongs to an official government
organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock  (
) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
secure websites.
Search
Search
CSRC MENU
Search
Search
Projects
Publications
Expand or Collapse
Drafts for Public Comment
All Public Drafts
Final Pubs
FIPS  (standards)
Special Publications (SP s )
IR  (interagency/internal reports)
CSWP  (cybersecurity white papers)
ITL Bulletins
Project Descriptions
Journal Articles
Conference Papers
Books
Topics
Expand or Collapse
Security & Privacy
Applications
Technologies
Sectors
Laws & Regulations
Activities & Products
News & Updates
Events
Glossary
About CSRC
Expand or Collapse
Computer Security Division
Cryptographic Technology
Software Security Group
Hardware Security Group
Security Engineering and Risk Management
Applied Cybersecurity Division
Cybersecurity and Privacy Applications
National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE)
National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE)
Contact Us
Information Technology Laboratory
Computer Security Resource Center
Publications
NIST SP 800-53B
Control Baselines for Information Systems and Organizations
Share to Facebook
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share ia Email
Documentation
Topics
Date Published:   September 2020 (includes updates as of Dec. 10, 2020)
Supersedes:
SP 800-53B (10/29/2020)
Planning Note ( 08/27/2025
):
On August 27, 2025, NIST issued a minor release of  SP 800-53B (Release 5.2.0)  that includes no changes to the baselines.  The SP 800-53B version number was updated for consistency with  SP 800-53  and  SP 800-53A .
Author(s)
Joint Task Force
Abstract
This publication provides security and privacy control baselines for the Federal Government. There are three security control baselines (one for each system impact level—low-impact, moderate-impact, and high-impact), as well as a privacy baseline that is applied to systems irrespective of impact level. In addition to the control baselines, this publication provides tailoring guidance and a set of working assumptions that help guide and inform the control selection process. Finally, this publication provides guidance on the development of overlays to facilitate control baseline customization for specific communities of interest, technologies, and environments of operation.
This publication provides security and privacy control baselines for the Federal Government. There are three security control baselines (one for each system impact level—low-impact, moderate-impact, and high-impact), as well as a privacy baseline that is applied to systems irrespective of impact...
See full abstract
This publication provides security and privacy control baselines for the Federal Government. There are three security control baselines (one for each system impact level—low-impact, moderate-impact, and high-impact), as well as a privacy baseline that is applied to systems irrespective of impact level. In addition to the control baselines, this publication provides tailoring guidance and a set of working assumptions that help guide and inform the control selection process. Finally, this publication provides guidance on the development of overlays to facilitate control baseline customization for specific communities of interest, technologies, and environments of operation.
Hide full abstract
Keywords
assurance
;                                  impact level
;                                  privacy control
;                                  privacy control baseline
;                                  security control
;                                  security control baseline
;                                  tailoring
;                                  control selection
;                                  control overlays
Control Families
None selected
Documentation
Publication:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-53B
Download URL
Supplemental Material:
SP 800-53B Release 5.2.0
Control Baselines spreadsheet  (xlsx)
Security Control Overlay Repository (SCOR)
OSCAL GitHub
NIST news article
Publication Parts:
SP 800-53A Rev. 5
SP 800-53 Rev. 5
Document History:
12/10/20:  SP 800-53B (Final)
Topics
Security and Privacy
cybersecurity supply chain risk management ,                                  general security & privacy ,                                  privacy ,                                  privacy controls ,                                  security controls ,                                  security programs & operations
HEADQUARTERS
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg, MD 20899
X
(link is external)
facebook
(link is external)
linkedin
(link is external)
instagram
(link is external)
youtube
(link is external)
rss
govdelivery
(link is external)
Want updates about CSRC and our publications?
Subscribe
Contact Us  |
Our Other Offices
Send inquiries to   [email protected]
Site Privacy
Accessibility
Privacy Program
Copyrights
Vulnerability Disclosure
No Fear Act Policy
FOIA
Environmental Policy
Scientific Integrity
Information Quality Standards
Commerce.gov
Science.gov
USA.gov
Vote.gov