SP 800-60 Rev. 2, Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Systems to Security Categories | CSRC
You are viewing this page in an unauthorized frame window.
This is a potential security issue, you are being redirected to  https://csrc.nist.gov .
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov  website belongs to an official government
organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock  (
) or  https://  means you’ve safely connected to
the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official,
secure websites.
Search
Search
CSRC MENU
Search
Search
Projects
Publications
Expand or Collapse
Drafts for Public Comment
All Public Drafts
Final Pubs
FIPS  (standards)
Special Publications (SP s )
IR  (interagency/internal reports)
CSWP  (cybersecurity white papers)
ITL Bulletins
Project Descriptions
Journal Articles
Conference Papers
Books
Topics
Expand or Collapse
Security & Privacy
Applications
Technologies
Sectors
Laws & Regulations
Activities & Products
News & Updates
Events
Glossary
About CSRC
Expand or Collapse
Computer Security Division
Cryptographic Technology
Software Security Group
Hardware Security Group
Security Engineering and Risk Management
Applied Cybersecurity Division
Cybersecurity and Privacy Applications
National Cybersecurity Center of Excellence (NCCoE)
National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE)
Contact Us
Information Technology Laboratory
Computer Security Resource Center
Publications
NIST SP 800-60 Rev. 2
(Initial Working Draft)
Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Systems to Security Categories
Share to Facebook
Share to X
Share to LinkedIn
Share ia Email
Documentation
Topics
Date Published:   January 31, 2024
Comments Due:   March 18, 2024 (public comment period is CLOSED)
Email Questions to:
[email protected]
Author(s)
Joint Task Force
Announcement
Summary
NIST seeks to update and improve the guidance in Special Publication (SP) 800-60,  Guide for Mapping Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories . Specifically, NIST seeks feedback on the document’s current use, proposed updates in the initial working draft and information types taxonomy, and opportunities for ongoing improvement to SP 800-60. The public is invited to provide input by  March 18, 2024 .
Details
NIST is proposing updates to the information types categorization methodology to better address privacy considerations during security categorization and align with updates in SP 800-37r2 (Revision 2),  Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations: A System Life Cycle Approach for Security and Privacy . Additionally, NIST intends to update the information types taxonomy and provisional impact levels (Volume 2) to ensure that they are consistent with current federal information types, including the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) registry, and allow for a more user-friendly and useable experience.
NIST welcomes feedback and input on any aspect of SP 800-60 and additionally proposes a list of non-exhaustive questions and topics for consideration:
How does your organization use SP 800-60?
If applicable, how does your organization use SP 800-60 to address PII?  Does your organization currently use SP 800-122 to help categorize PII?
NIST intends to incorporate relevant guidance from SP 800-122,  Guide to Protecting the Confidentiality of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) , into the new draft revision of SP 800-60 and withdraw SP 800-122. What guidance (or topic areas) are critical to include in an SP 800-60 update?  What are other privacy considerations during security categorization?
Are there other important relationships between privacy and information types that should be covered? If so, what should be highlighted?
What currently works well in SP 800-60?
What are opportunities for improvement?
Any other feedback on:  Updates to the security categorization methodology
Preliminary analysis and taxonomy for the  information types catalog
Proposed next steps
Following the feedback received on this pre-call for comments, NIST plans to issue an initial public draft update to SP 800-60. The methodology will be issued as a document for comment, and the information types and provisional impact levels will be issued in a spreadsheet format for comment and then via the  Cybersecurity and Privacy Reference Tool  when finalized.
The public comment period is open through March 18, 2024.  Please submit comments to   [email protected]
with “Comments on SP 800-60” in the subject field. We encourage you to use the  comment template  available under “ Supplemental Materials .”
NOTE: A call for patent claims is included on page iii of this draft. For additional information, see the   Information Technology Laboratory (ITL) Patent Policy  –  Inclusion of Patents in ITL Publications  .
Abstract
NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-60 facilities the application of appropriate levels of information security according to a range of levels of impact or consequence that may result from unauthorized disclosure, modification, or use of the information or systems. This publication provides a methodology to map types of information and systems to security categories (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, and availability) and impact levels (i.e., low, moderate, and high), a catalog of federal information types and recommended provisional impact levels.
NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-60 facilities the application of appropriate levels of information security according to a range of levels of impact or consequence that may result from unauthorized disclosure, modification, or use of the information or systems. This publication provides a...
See full abstract
NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-60 facilities the application of appropriate levels of information security according to a range of levels of impact or consequence that may result from unauthorized disclosure, modification, or use of the information or systems. This publication provides a methodology to map types of information and systems to security categories (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, and availability) and impact levels (i.e., low, moderate, and high), a catalog of federal information types and recommended provisional impact levels.
Hide full abstract
Keywords
categorization
;                                  controlled unclassified information
;                                  cybersecurity
;                                  FISMA
;                                  information security
;                                  information taxonomy
;                                  information type
;                                  Risk Management Framework
;                                  RMF
;                                  security category
;                                  security categorization
;                                  system categorization
Control Families
None selected
Documentation
Publication:
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-60r2.iwd
Download URL
Supplemental Material:
Information Types Taxonomy  (xlsx)
Comment template  (xlsx)
Document History:
01/31/24:  SP 800-60 Rev. 2 (Draft)
Topics
Security and Privacy
categorization
Laws and Regulations
Federal Information Security Modernization Act
HEADQUARTERS
100 Bureau Drive
Gaithersburg, MD 20899
X
(link is external)
facebook
(link is external)
linkedin
(link is external)
instagram
(link is external)
youtube
(link is external)
rss
govdelivery
(link is external)
Want updates about CSRC and our publications?
Subscribe
Contact Us  |
Our Other Offices
Send inquiries to   [email protected]
Site Privacy
Accessibility
Privacy Program
Copyrights
Vulnerability Disclosure
No Fear Act Policy
FOIA
Environmental Policy
Scientific Integrity
Information Quality Standards
Commerce.gov
Science.gov
USA.gov
Vote.gov