             NIST Special Publication 800
                        NIST SP 800-18r2

Developing Security, Privacy, and
 Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk
 Management Plans for Systems

                                            Jeremy Licata
                                        Rebecca McWhite
                                          Laura Calloway
                                             Dylan Gilbert
                                        Meghan Anderson
                                              Julie Snyder
                                            Jeremy Miller

             This publication is available free of charge from:
                   https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-18r2
                                   NIST Special Publication 800
                                              NIST SP 800-18r2

Developing Security, Privacy, and
 Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk
 Management Plans for Systems
                     Jeremy Licata, Rebecca McWhite, Laura Calloway
                                                            Computer Security Division
                                                    Information Technology Laboratory

                                              Dylan Gilbert1, Meghan Anderson
                                                         Applied Cybersecurity Division
                                                    Information Technology Laboratory

                                                        Jeremy Miller2, Julie Snyder
                                                                    The MITRE Corporation

                    1
                        Former NIST employee; all work for this publication was done while at NIST.
               2
                   Former MITRE employee; all work for this publication was done while at MITRE.


                                   This publication is available free of charge from:
                                         https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-18r2

                                                                                     June 2026




                                                                   U.S. Department of Commerce
                                                           Howard Lutnick, Secretary of Commerce

                                               National Institute of Standards and Technology
   Arvind Raman, NIST Director and Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                   Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                C-SCRM Plans for Systems

Certain equipment, instruments, software, or materials, commercial or non-commercial, are identified in this
paper in order to specify the experimental procedure adequately. Such identification does not imply
recommendation or endorsement of any product or service by NIST, nor does it imply that the materials or
equipment identified are necessarily the best available for the purpose.

There may be references in this publication to other publications currently under development by NIST in
accordance with its assigned statutory responsibilities. The information in this publication, including concepts and
methodologies, may be used by federal agencies even before the completion of such companion publications.
Thus, until each publication is completed, current requirements, guidelines, and procedures, where they exist,
remain operative. For planning and transition purposes, federal agencies may wish to closely follow the
development of these new publications by NIST.

Organizations are encouraged to review all draft publications during public comment periods and provide feedback
to NIST. Many NIST cybersecurity publications, other than the ones noted above, are available at
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications.


Authority
This publication has been developed by NIST in accordance with its statutory responsibilities under the Federal
Information Security Modernization Act (FISMA) of 2014, 44 U.S.C. § 3551 et seq., Public Law (P.L.) 113-283. NIST is
responsible for developing information security standards and guidelines, including minimum requirements for
federal information systems, but such standards and guidelines shall not apply to national security systems
without the express approval of appropriate federal officials exercising policy authority over such systems. This
guideline is consistent with the requirements of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130.

Nothing in this publication should be taken to contradict the standards and guidelines made mandatory and
binding on federal agencies by the Secretary of Commerce under statutory authority. Nor should these guidelines
be interpreted as altering or superseding the existing authorities of the Secretary of Commerce, Director of the
OMB, or any other federal official. This publication may be used by nongovernmental organizations on a voluntary
basis and is not subject to copyright in the United States. Attribution would, however, be appreciated by NIST.


NIST Technical Series Policies
Copyright, Use, and Licensing Statements
NIST Technical Series Publication Identifier Syntax


Publication History
Approved by the NIST Editorial Review Board on 2026-05-26
Supersedes NIST SP 800-18r1 (February 2006) https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-18r1


How to Cite this NIST Technical Series Publication
Licata J, McWhite R, Calloway L, Gilbert D, Miller J (2026) Developing Security, Privacy, and Supply Chain Risk
Management Plans for Systems. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special
Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-18r2. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-18r2
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                   Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                C-SCRM Plans for Systems

Author ORCID iDs
Meghan Anderson: 0009-0004-2875-5672
Laura Calloway: 0000-0003-4045-7307
Dylan Gilbert: 0009-0003-6061-3757
Jeremy Licata: 0000-0001-8793-5471
Rebecca McWhite: 0009-0000-9092-3500
Jeremy Miller: 0009-0004-3119-8803
Julie Snyder: 0009-0004-6352-2831


Contact Information
sec-cert@nist.gov

National Institute of Standards and Technology
Attn: Computer Security Division, Information Technology Laboratory
100 Bureau Drive (Mail Stop 8930) Gaithersburg, MD 20899-8930


Additional Information
Additional information about this publication is available at https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/18/r2/final,
including related content, potential updates, and document history.


All comments are subject to release under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                    Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                 C-SCRM Plans for Systems


Abstract
The system security plan, system privacy plan, and cybersecurity supply chain risk management
plan are collectively referred to as system plans. They describe the purpose of the system, the
operational status of the controls selected and allocated for meeting risk management
requirements, and the responsibilities and expected behavior of all individuals who manage,
support, and access the system. This publication identifies essential elements of system plans
from security, privacy, and cybersecurity supply chain risk management perspectives to
promote consistent information collection across the organization, regardless of the system’s
mission or business function.

Keywords
authorization boundary; authorizing official; common control authorization; control
implementation details; cybersecurity supply chain risk management plan; privacy plan; privacy
risk management; risk management framework; security plan; security risk management;
authorization to operate; authorization to use; authorizing official designated representative;
CASES Act; control implementation; controls; FASCSA; FISMA; ongoing authorization; Privacy
Act; supply chain; supply chain risk management; system privacy plan; system security plan;
system owner.

Reports on Computer Systems Technology
The Information Technology Laboratory (ITL) at the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) promotes the U.S. economy and public welfare by providing technical
leadership for the Nation’s measurement and standards infrastructure. ITL develops tests, test
methods, reference data, proof of concept implementations, and technical analyses to advance
the development and productive use of information technology. ITL’s responsibilities include
the development of management, administrative, technical, and physical standards and
guidelines for the cost-effective security and privacy of other than national security-related
information in federal information systems. The Special Publication 800-series reports on ITL’s
research, guidelines, and outreach efforts in information system security, and its collaborative
activities with industry, government, and academic organizations.




                                                i
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                       Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                    C-SCRM Plans for Systems

Supplemental Content
The following materials are available on the publication details page to supplement the
guidelines provided in this publication:
    •   System Security Plan outline example
    •   System Privacy Plan outline example
    •   Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Plan outline example
    •   System Plan Roles and Responsibilities

Audience
This publication is intended to serve a diverse audience, including:
    •   Individuals with information security, privacy, and risk management program oversight
        responsibilities (e.g., authorizing officials, senior agency information security officers,
        senior agency officials for privacy)
    •   Individuals with system development responsibilities (e.g., mission or business owners,
        program managers, systems engineers, systems security engineers, systems privacy
        engineers, software developers, systems integrators, acquisition or procurement
        officials)
    •   Individuals with system security and privacy implementation and operations
        responsibilities (e.g., mission or business owners, system owners, information owners or
        stewards, system administrators, system security officers, system privacy officers)
    •   Individuals with cybersecurity supply chain risk management-related responsibilities
        (e.g., C-SCRM program managers)
    •   Individuals with acquisition and procurement-related responsibilities (e.g., acquisition
        officials, contracting officers)
    •   Individuals with logistical or disposition-related responsibilities (e.g., program managers,
        system integrators, property managers)
    •   Individuals with control assessment and monitoring responsibilities (e.g., auditors,
        Inspectors General, system evaluators, control assessors, independent verifiers and
        validators, analysts)
    •   Commercial entities and industry partners that produce component products and
        systems, create security and privacy technologies, or provide services or capabilities that
        support information security or privacy
The material presented in this publication assumes that the audience has a basic understanding
of the concepts presented in NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-37, NIST Risk Management
Framework for Information Systems and Organizations: A System Life Cycle Approach for
Security and Privacy.



                                                  ii
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

Patent Disclosure Notice
NOTICE: ITL has requested that holders of patent claims whose use may be required for
compliance with the guidance or requirements of this publication disclose such patent claims to
ITL. However, holders of patents are not obligated to respond to ITL calls for patents and ITL has
not undertaken a patent search in order to identify which, if any, patents may apply to this
publication.
As of the date of publication and following call(s) for the identification of patent claims whose
use may be required for compliance with the guidance or requirements of this publication, no
such patent claims have been identified to ITL.
No representation is made or implied by ITL that licenses are not required to avoid patent
infringement in the use of this publication.




                                                iii
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                           Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                        C-SCRM Plans for Systems

Table of Contents
Executive Summary ............................................................................................................................. 1
1. Introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 2




2. Overview ......................................................................................................................................... 6




3. System Plan Elements .................................................................................................................... 11




4. System Plan Development Through the Risk Management Framework Steps ................................. 35




References ......................................................................................................................................... 44
Appendix A. RMF Task Outputs Related to System Plan Elements ...................................................... 49
Appendix B. List of Abbreviations and Acronyms ............................................................................... 54
Appendix C. Glossary ......................................................................................................................... 56
Appendix D. Change Log .................................................................................................................... 60


List of Tables
Table 1. System Plan Elements Summary ........................................................................................... 12
Table 2. RMF task outputs related to the system plan elements summary in Table 1 ......................... 49




                                                                          iv
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                           Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                        C-SCRM Plans for Systems

List of Figures
Fig. 1. Cybersecurity, privacy, and cybersecurity supply chain risk relationships ................................... 9
Fig. 2. NIST Risk Management Framework Steps ................................................................................ 35




                                                               v
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                       Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                    C-SCRM Plans for Systems

Acknowledgments
The authors would like to thank everyone who took the time to review and make comments on
the revision of this publication, specifically Jon Boyens, Michaela Iorga, Victoria Yan Pillitteri,
Eduardo Takamura, Daniel Eliott, Robert Staples, Claire Barrett, Jim Foti, Isabel Van Wyk, and
the CSD web team of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST); Ellen Nadeau
of Fedwriters, Inc./Coralline; Michele Iversen of the Department of Defense; and Paul J.
DeNaray of The Aerospace Corporation.
The authors would also like to acknowledge the original authors — Marianne Swanson, Joan
Hash, and Pauline Bowen — as well as the individuals who contributed to the original version of
this publication.
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                     Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                  C-SCRM Plans for Systems


Executive Summary
System plans collectively refer to the system security plan, system privacy plan, and
cybersecurity supply chain risk management (C-SCRM) plan that describe the design and
implementation of security, privacy, and cybersecurity supply chain protections throughout the
system life cycle. System plans:
    •   Include information about the data being created, collected, disseminated, used, stored,
        and disposed of;
    •   Identify individuals who are responsible for system risk management efforts;
    •   Describe the environment of operation, system components, and data flows within the
        environment; and
    •   Account for risks associated with the sharing of information outside the scope of the
        system.
The elements described in this publication provide building blocks for an organization to devise
an effective method of collecting and consolidating information about a system so that it is
readily available to organizational leadership, authorizing officials, system owners, and risk
managers to support risk-based decisions. Organizations may also consider more responsive
approaches to system plan structures (e.g., automated data collection methods, online
reporting dashboards) in lieu of traditional document-focused system plans that may not
support the rapid pace of modern system development.
NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-18r2 (Revision 2) addresses the development of system plans
in support of risk management activities, such as tasks in the NIST Risk Management
Framework (RMF) steps in [SP800-37]. This revision:
    •   Provides content considerations for elements in system plans;
    •   Discusses the use of automation to maintain system plans over the system life cycle,
        including sharing and protecting system plan information; and
    •   Provides supplemental materials, including system plan outline examples and updated
        roles and responsibilities associated with system plans, that may factor into system plan
        development.
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130 [OMBA-130] requires federal agencies
to develop and maintain system plans for managing risks, including implementation details for
the controls allocated to address the requirements. Nonfederal organizations may voluntarily
apply the guidelines provided in this publication to develop and maintain system plans
consistent with their risk management strategies.




                                                1
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                          Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                       C-SCRM Plans for Systems

1. Introduction
All systems that process, store, and transmit information within an organization need
safeguards that adhere to an organization-wide risk management strategy to address security,
privacy, and cybersecurity supply chain risks. A standardized method of presenting risk
management information about a system can help organizational leadership, risk managers,
and system personnel understand the safeguards that are designed to protect the organization
and system assets.
System plans collectively refer to the system security plan, system privacy plan, and
cybersecurity supply chain risk management (C-SCRM) plan, which describe the assets and
individuals being protected within the scope of a system and the risks associated with
information exchanges that involve systems outside the scope (e.g., database sharing, cloud- or
web-based service, simple file exchange).
        •    The system security plan describes the system security requirements, including the
             controls selected to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system
             and its information.
        •    The system privacy plan describes the system privacy risk management requirements,
             including the controls selected to address predictability, manageability, and
             disassociability. 1
        •    The C-SCRM plan describes the system’s C-SCRM requirements, including the controls to
             manage, implement, and monitor the supply chain and to develop and sustain the
             system across mission and business functions.
The NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF) [SP800-37] provides a flexible methodology for
organizations and systems to manage security, privacy, and supply chain risks. The expected
outputs of RMF tasks (see Appendix A) inform the system plan elements (see Sec. 3.1) that
describe the purpose and scope of the system; the environment of operation; the information
types created, collected, disseminated, used, stored, and disposed of; the data flows within the
environment and with interconnected systems; the control implementation details; and the
roles and responsibilities of individuals associated with the system. Organizations determine
the level of detail and areas of focus that are appropriate for each system plan element based
on the information needed to support:
        •    System assessment, ongoing assessment, and continuous monitoring activities by
             system personnel and assessment teams
        •    Risk-based decisions by senior leadership (i.e., authorizing official, senior agency official
             for privacy)
Organizations are encouraged to automate the collection of system information (see Sec. 3.3)
using information management tools with a central data repository, including Governance, Risk,
and Compliance (GRC); Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response (SOAR); and Security
Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools. Automation can control the availability and

1
    The NIST Privacy Framework [NIST PF] explains the privacy engineering objectives of predictability, manageability, and disassociability.



                                                                          2
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                     Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                  C-SCRM Plans for Systems

shareability of collected system information, enabling personnel responsible for the system to
access an appropriate level of detail based on their system risk management role.
While there is a shift toward automating information capture and managing system plans using
standardized machine-readable formats, 2 organizations with limited resources to automate
may rely on the manual preparation of traditional system plan artifacts.

1.1. Publication Scope
This publication focuses on the development of system plans that address system-level security,
privacy, and C-SCRM requirements that are derived from enterprise, organization, and
mission/business process requirements. The guidelines in this publication can be extended to:
     •    Common control providers that provide implementation details for controls available to
          be inherited by other systems;
     •    Requirements identified in [SP800-171] and [SP800-172] for the development of system
          security plans for nonfederal organizations protecting Controlled Unclassified
          Information (CUI); and
     •    Organizations developing system plans for service offerings from cloud service
          providers, including software as a service (SaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and
          infrastructure as a service (IaaS).
System plans are required for federal systems in accordance with Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-130 [OMBA-130] and the provisions of the Federal Information
Security Modernization Act (FISMA) of 2014 [FISMA]. 3 Nonfederal organizations — including
private and small businesses, academic institutions, and state, local, and tribal governments —
may utilize the guidelines provided in this publication to support their risk management
programs.
The guidelines provided can support training for individuals in roles that are responsible for the
development and maintenance of system plans. Organizations can leverage the example plans,
provided as supplemental materials, to develop localized plan templates. Third-party templates
are available 4 to address planning requirements for specific organizations or industry sectors.




2
  The NIST Open Security Controls Assessment Language [OSCAL] is designed to standardize the representation, implementation, and
assessment of controls using machine-readable data formats (e.g., XML, JSON, YAML). These OSCAL representations can be used in conjunction
with the other OSCAL schemas to represent structured and machine-readable system plan information, control assessment plans, and
assessment results, which facilitate the continuous assessment and monitoring of system controls. Initially designed for security assessment,
OSCAL has been proven suitable for the machine-readable representation of other control types (e.g., privacy, supply chain, accessibility,
safety) and to support their continuous assessment and monitoring.
3
  [FISMA] includes privacy protections in the definition for confidentiality, as indicated in [44 USC3552].
4
  [SP1318] identifies https://ndisac.org/dibscc/cyberassist/cybersecurity-maturity-model-certification/level-2/ca-l2-3-12-4/,
https://www.fedramp.gov/rev5/documents-templates/ as potential sources for applicable system plan templates.



                                                                      3
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

1.2. Relationship With Other NIST Publications
This publication is designed to support the NIST portfolio of risk management initiatives and
publications 5 that address security, privacy, and supply chain risk management concepts and
methodologies, including:
     •     SP 800-37, Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations: A
           System Life Cycle Approach for Security and Privacy [SP800-37]
     •     SP 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations
           [SP800-53]
     •     SP 800-53A, Assessing Security and Privacy Controls in Information Systems and
           Organizations [SP800-53A]
     •     SP 800-53B, Control Baselines for Information Systems and Organizations [SP800-53B]
     •     SP 800-161, Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and
           Organizations [SP800-161]
     •     SP 800-171, Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and
           Organizations [SP800-171]
     •     SP 800-172, Enhanced Security Requirements for Protecting Controlled Unclassified
           Information [SP800-172]
     •     NIST Privacy Framework: A Tool for Improving Privacy through Enterprise Risk
           Management [NISTPF]
     •     The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) [NISTCSF]

1.3. Document Organization
The publication is organized into the following sections:
     •     Section 2 describes system security, system privacy, and C-SCRM plans and discusses the
           development of consolidated plans.
     •     Section 3 identifies elements that may be included in system security, privacy, and
           C-SCRM plans and describes how automation can support the collection and reporting
           of system information.
     •     Section 4 provides a management-level overview of how system plans are developed
           and maintained in relation to the NIST RMF.
     •     The References section lists the source materials cited in this publication.
The following appendices provide additional information and resources that support the
development of system plans:


5
  The full range of NIST cybersecurity-related publications can be found in the Information Technology Laboratory (ITL) Computer Security
Resource Center [CSRC]. Additional resources are available through the NIST Cybersecurity and Privacy Reference Tool [CPRT].



                                                                      4
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                     Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                  C-SCRM Plans for Systems

    •   Appendix A summarizes the RMF task outputs included in system plans.
    •   Appendix B lists the abbreviations and acronyms used in this publication.
    •   Appendix C provides a glossary of the terms used in this publication.
    •   Appendix D provides a publication change log.




                                                5
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

2. Overview
Based on the organization’s risk management strategy and NIST guidelines (e.g., [SP800-37],
[SP800-53], [SP800-161]), system plans:
    •   Identify the authorization boundary of the system;
    •   Identify individuals who are responsible for managing and supporting the system;
    •   Help organizational personnel understand how to manage risks to an acceptable level
        throughout the system life cycle and respond to changing risks in a timely manner;
    •   Demonstrate the application of security engineering approaches to building resilient and
        trustworthy systems following [SP800-160v1r1] and [SP800-160v2r1];
    •   Define capabilities to defend the organization against threats and threat actors;
    •   Consider requirements for information technology, operational technology, and
        emerging technologies that may be informed by system artifacts, such as risk
        assessments, business impact analyses (BIAs), and information exchange agreements;
    •   Address organizationally defined parameters, acceptable risk thresholds, and
        organizational policies that support the organization’s security, privacy, and C-SCRM
        objectives;
    •   Provide sufficient evidence to support risk-based decisions regarding the ongoing
        operation or use of the system; and
    •   Require methodical reviews and periodic updates to maintain information about the
        system’s mission, technologies, components, personnel, and the status of controls that
        are selected and allocated for system implementation.
This section addresses the objectives and purposes of the system security plan, system privacy
plan, and C-SCRM plan.

2.1. System Security Plan
The system security plan identifies the system’s security requirements and describes the
controls that are planned and implemented to meet those requirements. The system security
plan:
    •   Supports situational awareness of the system security posture over the course of the
        system life cycle (i.e., “living document”);
    •   Enables organizational leadership and system management personnel to manage
        security risks and make effective risk management decisions;
    •   Identifies the individuals responsible for maintaining the security protections and
        safeguards for information and systems;
    •   Consolidates details about the system, including its purpose, authorization boundary,
        [FIPS199] security categorization, operational status, and environment of operation; and


                                                 6
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

     •     Explains how controls are implemented to achieve security objectives (i.e.,
           confidentiality, integrity, and availability).

2.2. System Privacy Plan
The system privacy plan identifies controls that are allocated and implemented to address
privacy risks related to both cybersecurity events and data processing. The privacy plan:
     •     Aligns the system’s privacy objectives with the organization’s mission, risk tolerance,
           and privacy goals;
     •     Defines system requirements with respect to the privacy engineering objectives of
           predictability, manageability, and disassociability and the Fair Information Practice
           Principles (FIPPs) 6; and
     •     Describes planned and implemented controls to address privacy requirements and data
           processing activities that may compromise privacy (i.e., problematic data actions 7).
Systems must comply with laws governing data subject rights (i.e., the right to access, correct,
or delete information 8). The system privacy plan describes how the organization manages the
risks of over-collection, unauthorized profiling, or the misuse of data about individuals.
Privacy requirements may be informed by the following:
     •     Legal and regulatory obligations
     •     Privacy activities and artifacts including the Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) and Privacy
           Risk Assessment (PRA) 9
     •     Information exchange agreements [SP800-47]
     •     Public notices for the collection and use of personal information, such as a System of
           Records Notice (SORN)[PRIVACT]
This includes identifying and cataloging key inputs, such as data actions, contextual factors that
describe the circumstances surrounding data processing, privacy capabilities, and privacy
engineering and security objectives based on organizational mission needs, risk tolerance, and
privacy goals.




6
  The FIPPs have been adopted in various forms in law and policy within the U.S. Government and by international organizations, such as the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the European Union. [OMB A-130] identifies and explains the FIPPs for
U.S. federal agencies.
7
  Per the NIST Privacy Framework [NIST PF], a problematic data action (PDA) may cause an adverse effect for individuals.
8
  Many laws, regulations, and guidance focus on a defined scope of information that is covered by privacy protections for PII, such as
[OMB A-130] or the California Privacy Rights Act [CPRA]. However, data processing may still introduce privacy risks, even if data does not meet
a narrow privacy definition (e.g., some data that is not PII can be combined with other information during processing to become PII).
9
  The NIST Privacy Risk Assessment Methodology [PRAM] helps organizations analyze, assess, and prioritize privacy risks to identify appropriate
responses and solutions.



                                                                       7
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

2.3. Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Plan
The system-level C-SCRM plan draws from the organization’s overarching C-SCRM strategy 10 to
address cybersecurity risks at the system level throughout the supply chain, including
commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) products, turn-key solutions, and support services. It
incorporates organization-level priorities, policies, and risk tolerances to address system-level
risks and interdependencies with inherited or system-specific controls that enhance trust and
protection. The C-SCRM plan:
     •     Identifies policy implementations, requirements, constraints, and implications that are
           specific to the cybersecurity supply chain at the system level and that derive from the
           organization-level C-SCRM strategy and mission/business process risk priorities;
     •     Describes the system’s approach to managing supply chain risks that are associated with
           the research, development, design, manufacturing, acquisition, delivery, integration,
           operations, maintenance, and disposal of its components or services;
     •     Describes the system in the context of the organizational supply chain risk tolerance,
           including acceptable supply chain risk response strategies or controls, a process for the
           continuous evaluation and monitoring of supply chain risks, approaches for
           implementing and communicating the plan, and a description of and justification for the
           supply chain risk mitigation measures that are taken;
     •     Includes supplier and component inventories that specify the associated criticality to the
           system and identify key individuals who fill supply chain-relevant roles;
     •     Considers security control implementation information that is specific to supply chain
           considerations, system diagrams, and interdependencies with other systems; and
     •     Defines the relationships between key suppliers and the system owner by establishing
           roles and responsibilities, setting stakeholder expectations, managing supplier
           performance, and enumerating policies, processes, and procedures for supplier
           governance that can evolve as the system C-SCRM plan matures.
Different types of systems may have specific considerations that can be addressed in the
C-SCRM plan, such as the system architecture, security category, or type of technology used
within the system. [SP800-161] Appendix A, C-SCRM Security Controls, provides an enhanced
overlay with selected [SP800-53] security and privacy controls along with implementation
guidelines to support the effective implementation of the controls from a supply chain risk
management perspective.




10
  The cybersecurity supply chain refers to the linked set of resources and processes between and among multiple levels of the organizational
hierarchy. In general practice, C-SCRM is at the nexus of SCRM and information security, so C-SCRM and SCRM refer to the same concept for
the purposes of this publication. Other organizations may use different definitions of C-SCRM and SCRM, which are outside of the scope of this
publication. This publication does not address many of the non-cybersecurity aspects of SCRM.



                                                                      8
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                    Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                 C-SCRM Plans for Systems

2.4. Consolidated System Plan
Organizations determine whether to consolidate the system security, system privacy, or
C-SCRM plans, as described in RMF [SP800-37] Task S-4, Documentation of Planned Control
Implementations, and [SP800-161]. For a consolidated plan:
    •   Common elements in the security, privacy, and C-SCRM plans (e.g., System Name and
        Identifier, System Operational Status, System Overview, Authorization Boundary
        Description) provide consistent information about the system’s mission, purpose, and
        environment of operation.
    •   Roles and responsibilities are defined to support the ongoing collaboration between
        individuals who are responsible for meeting system security, privacy, and C-SCRM
        requirements.
    •   Each control that is allocated, tailored, and implemented or planned for implementation
        has details that clearly address system requirements.
When choosing whether to consolidate plans, an organization may consider the
interrelationship of controls that address the risks associated with overlapping cybersecurity,
cybersecurity supply chain, and privacy incidents or events, as shown in Fig. 1.




                   Fig. 1. Cybersecurity, privacy, and cybersecurity supply chain risk relationships



                                                          9
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                    Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                 C-SCRM Plans for Systems

While security-related controls can support system privacy outcomes, privacy risks may require
additional privacy-focused controls that go beyond protecting confidentiality, integrity, and
availability. Some may also introduce privacy risks that require additional management, such as
monitoring for insider threats. For example, an implemented software component may have
vulnerabilities that allow organization users to gain unauthorized access to datasets with
employees’ personal information.
Cybersecurity and cybersecurity supply chain controls may not address certain aspects of data
handling and governance that can arise from the authorized processing of personal
information. For example, an attacker may exfiltrate an organization’s customer data files
through the exploitation of a third-party service provider entrusted with the data.
Unauthorized data access and authorized disclosures that are made without sufficient
disassociability can introduce privacy problems for individuals that may have an impact on the
organization and result in noncompliance costs, direct business costs, or other impacts [PDAP].
Incorporating the security, privacy, and C-SCRM controls into a unified system plan provides a
holistic view of the risk management requirements and activities throughout the system life
cycle.




                                               10
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                    Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                 C-SCRM Plans for Systems

3. System Plan Elements
This section describes the types of system information to include in the system plan.
Information management tools (e.g., GRC, SOAR, SIEM) can be used to capture, report, and
update system information details following consistent and logical structures that address
security, privacy, and C-SCRM risk management objectives. Organizations define the methods,
structures, and formats used to develop system plans that include the described elements and
additional organization- or system-specific elements as needed to achieve security, privacy, and
cybersecurity supply chain risk management program objectives.

3.1. System Plan Elements Summary
The system plan elements summary in Table 1 is organized based on the RMF tasks in
[SP800-37], where the system and privacy plan are identified as either potential inputs or
expected outputs for tasks. Inputs and outputs from multiple RMF tasks may be combined to
fully address some system plan element.
This structure provides a basis for the logical development and maintenance of a “living”
system plan. The system plan elements enable an organization to determine a method for
collecting and presenting information about the system, whether it is being developed or is
authorized to operate. The information collected and reported for each element accurately
communicates the efforts to safeguard the system information and components to
organizational leadership, authorizing officials, system owners, and risk managers throughout
the system life cycle.
Each system plan element in Table 1 is cross-referenced with the corresponding RMF task
outputs in Appendix A, Table 2. Section 3.2 discusses the objectives and content considerations
for each system plan element. Section 4 describes additional considerations for the RMF steps
to support those responsible for managing the development of system plans.
System plan outline examples are provided as supplemental materials to this publication and
show potential ways to combine these elements into an automated system plan report or
system plan artifact.




                                               11
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                                       Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                                    C-SCRM Plans for Systems

                                                     Table 1. System Plan Elements Summary

   RMF Step                 Source RMF Task(s)            System Plan Element                          System Plan Element Overview
Prepare            P-18, System Registration        System Name and Identifier        Identify the system name and unique system identifier.

Prepare            P-8, Mission or Business Focus   System Type                       Identify the type of system.
                   C-1, System Description

Prepare            P-8, Mission or Business Focus   System Overview                   Identify the mission processes and business functions that the
                   C-1, System Description                                            system is intended to support.
                   M-1, System and Environment
                   Changes

Prepare            P-9, System Stakeholders         Role Identification and           Identify the individuals who serve as authorizing officials and
                                                    Responsible Personnel             system owners as well as other key roles with system
                                                                                      responsibilities.

Prepare            P-12, Information Types          System Information Types          Identify the information types that are processed, stored, or
                   P-13, Information Life Cycle                                       transmitted by the system.

Prepare            P-15, Requirements Definition    Laws, Regulations, and Policies   Identify current laws, regulations, and policies that influence
                   P-17, Requirements Allocation    Affecting the System              organizational policies and system requirements.
                                                    Requirements
Prepare            P-10, Asset Identification       Authorization Boundary            Define the scope of the system protections that encompass the
                   P-11, Authorization Boundary     Description                       authorization boundary, including all components and
                   P-13, Information Life Cycle                                       subsystems of the system to be authorized for operation.
                   P-16, Enterprise Architecture
                   M-1, System and Environment
                   Changes

Prepare            P-10, Asset Identification       System Component Inventory        Identify the inventory of components being used within the
                   M-7, System Disposal                                               authorization boundary.




                                                                         12
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                                              Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                                           C-SCRM Plans for Systems

   RMF Step                Source RMF Task(s)                  System Plan Element                          System Plan Element Overview
Prepare            P-10, Asset Identification            Environment of Operation         Include system diagrams that clearly depict the components of
                   P-11, Authorization Boundary          Diagrams                         the system architecture within the authorization boundary.
                   P-13, Information Life Cycle
                   P-16, Enterprise Architecture
                   M-1, System and Environment
                   Changes

Categorize         C-2, Security Categorization          System Categorization            Categorize information types by their impact level for each
                   C-3, Security Categorization Review                                    security objective (i.e., confidentiality, integrity, availability). The
                   and Approval                                                           system security category reflects the high-water mark of the
                                                                                          security category of all designated subsystems.

Select             P-4, Organizationally-Tailored        Control Implementation Details   Provide implementation details for all controls that are allocated
                   Control Baselines and Cybersecurity                                    to the system. Identify the location of artifacts that are
                   Framework Profiles (Optional)                                          referenced in the control implementation details.
                   P-5, Common Control Identification
                   S-1, Control Selection
                   S-2, Control Tailoring
                   S-3, Control Allocation
                   S-4, Documentation of Planned
                   Control Implementations
                   S-5, Continuous Monitoring Strategy
                   - System
                   I-1, Control Implementation
                   I-2, Update Control Implementation
                   Information
                   A-5, Remediation Actions
                   R-3, Risk Response
                   M-1, System and Environment
                   Changes
                   M-3, Ongoing Response

Select             S-6, Plan Review and Approval         System Plan Approval             Indicate whether the plan has been approved by the authorizing
                                                                                          official.




                                                                             13
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                                           Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                                        C-SCRM Plans for Systems

   RMF Step                Source RMF Task(s)                   System Plan Element                        System Plan Element Overview
Implement          S-4, Documentation of Planned          Control Implementation Status   Indicate the implementation status of the control.
                   Control Implementations
                   I-2, Update Control Implementation
                   Information

Implement          P-13, Information Life Cycle           Information Exchanges Summary   Summarize the flow of information exchanged with other
                   I-1, Control Implementation                                            systems outside the authorization boundary.
                   I-2, Update Control Implementation
                   Information
                   R-3, Risk Response
                   M-1, System and Environment
                   Changes
                   M-3, Ongoing Response

Assess             A-5, Remediation Actions               Control Assessment Status       Indicate the assessment status of each allocated control resulting
                   A-6, Plan of Actions and Milestones                                    from the assessment process.
                   M-2, Ongoing Assessments

Assess             I-2, Update Control Implementation     Remediation Actions             Identify controls that require remediation action resulting from
                   Information                                                            assessment results and the associated plan of action and
                   A-5, Remediation Actions                                               milestones.
                   A-6, Plan of Action and Milestones
                   R-1, Authorization Package
                   R-3, Risk Response
                   M-3, Ongoing Risk Response
                   M-4, Authorization Package Updates

Authorize          R-1, Authorization Package             Digital Identity Acceptance     Provide a Digital Identity Acceptance Statement (DIAS), as
                   M-4, Authorization Package Updates     Statement (optional)            described in [SP800-63-4].

Authorize          A-5, Remediation Actions               System Authorization Decision   Identify the authorization decision and the effective date and
                   R-2, Risk Analysis and Determination                                   duration of the authorization provided by the authorizing official.
                   R-4, Authorization Decision
                   M-4, Authorization Package Updates
                   M-6, Ongoing Authorization




                                                                                14
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                                     Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                                  C-SCRM Plans for Systems

   RMF Step                Source RMF Task(s)                 System Plan Element                    System Plan Element Overview
Monitor            C-1, System Description              System Operational Status    Indicate the operational status of the system and subsystems.
                   M-1, System and Environment
                   Changes
                   M-7, System Disposal

Monitor            M-4, Authorization Package Updates   System Plan Review Records   Provide a method for recording system plan reviews over the
                                                                                     course of the system life cycle.

Monitor            I-2, Update Control Implementation   System Plan Change Records   Provide a method for recording system plan changes over the
                   Information                                                       course of the system life cycle.
                   A-5, Remediation Actions
                   A-6, Plan of Action and Milestones
                   R-3, Risk Response
                   M-1, System and Environment
                   Changes
                   M-3, Ongoing Risk Response
                   M-4, Authorization Package Updates
                   M-7, System Disposal




                                                                           15
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                   Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                C-SCRM Plans for Systems


3.2. System Plan Element Details
This section provides a discussion of each of the system plan elements identified in Table 1.

System Name and Identifier
          Discussion: Designate a unique system name and identifier to distinguish one system
          from another in organizational records. Organizations determine the method for
          assigning the system name, an associated acronym, and a unique system identifier for
          all systems in the organization’s inventory based on the implementation of [SP800-53]
          PM-05, System Inventory. The system identifier may be automatically generated or
          manually assigned using organization-defined conventions.
          The system name and identifier remain the same throughout the system life cycle to
          facilitate the management and tracking of system components, artifacts, assessment
          and monitoring reports, and risk-based decisions, as well as the traceability of responses
          to privacy and security events (e.g., access to data, data transfers). Where possible, the
          system name and identifier are referenced in PIAs and PRAs to link privacy risks to
          specific systems and their associated controls.
          For a complex system (see [SP800-37] Appendix G, Authorization Boundary
          Considerations), additional subsystem or system element identifiers may be assigned to
          reflect the relationship between the authorization boundary and the individual
          subsystems within the environment of operation.
          Related plan elements: System Type, System Overview

System Type
          Discussion: Identify key characteristics that define the type of system, such as:
          •     Common control provider (e.g., data center facility, enterprise architecture services)
          •     Implemented or supported technology (e.g., operational technology, cloud-based
                system, cloud-supported application, artificial intelligence system, high-performance
                computing)
          •     Environment Type (e.g., development, testing, training, production)
          •     System exposure (e.g., restricted access, public-facing system, physically or logically
                isolated)
          •     System criticality 11 (e.g., organization-critical, mission-critical, high-availability, low-
                priority)
          •     Ownership of the system (e.g., federal information system; government-owned,
                contractor-supported system; contractor-owned and operated system)


11
  [IR8179] Discusses the system/subsystem- and component/subcomponent-level criticality analysis based on their importance to the goals of
an organization and the impact that their loss may present to those goals.



                                                                    16
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        •   Function of the system (e.g., transaction processing, operational management,
            decision support, customer relationship management, science data processing,
            machine learning)
        The terms “general support system,” “major application,” and “minor application” for
        system types have been deprecated for federal information systems following
        [OMBA-130] requirements. This change reflects shifts in technology away from
        perimeter-based security and toward risk-based requirements for holistically protecting
        systems and system data, including the system infrastructure and applications within
        the infrastructure.
        The system type is distinct from the system information types used to assign the
        security categorization of the system.
        Related plan elements: System Overview, Authorization Boundary Description

System Overview
        Discussion: Provide a brief overview of the mission/business functions of the system
        and the purpose of the system (e.g., economic indicator, network support for an agency,
        business census data analysis, crop reporting support).The overview may highlight risk
        management strategies for high-risk aspects of the environment of operation, such as
        high-availability components or public-facing services.
        Summarize the data and information types handled by the system (e.g., CUI, privacy).
        Highlight the relationship between the system owner and data owner responsibilities
        for data collection, processing, and disposal as provided from the organization or system
        data governance strategy. In the privacy plan, the overview aligns with the information
        provided in the PIA, PRA, and other applicable privacy documentation (e.g., notices to
        the public, information exchange agreements).
        Compile a list of the technologies being used to support the mission/business functions
        and factors that present additional security- or privacy-specific risks, such as cloud-
        based products and services, “bring your own device” (BYOD) policies, or the processing
        of data about individuals. Reference key design considerations (e.g., centralization
        methods, continuous integration and continuous delivery, zero trust architecture,
        emerging technologies) in the approach for identifying and managing system risks.
        Identify the system user base and user roles that require privileged access to specific
        components, enclaves, or data flows that contain data about individuals to ensure
        accountability and transparency.
        Summarize the system’s supply chain profile and highlight C-SCRM-relevant
        technologies (e.g., foreign-sourced components, vendor-managed services,
        TAA/Common Criteria/NIAP compliance or open-source dependencies) to support a
        holistic understanding of system risks and to ensure alignment of security, privacy, and
        C-SCRM risk management.




                                                17
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                            Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                         C-SCRM Plans for Systems

              Related plan elements: System Type, System Information Types, Authorization
              Boundary Description

Role Identification and Responsible Personnel
              Discussion: Identify the role of each individual that has responsibilities for coordinating
              system-specific risk management activities. An individual’s organizational job title may
              not clearly demonstrate or align with the risk management role and responsibilities.
              Identified individuals are generally held accountable for the ongoing operation of the
              system, the continuous monitoring of the implemented controls, and additional risk
              mitigation efforts that are required throughout the system life cycle. Based on the plan
              type, key roles include the system security officer, system privacy officer, and personnel
              who support the C-SCRM Program Management Office (PMO).
              Common roles and responsibilities of key participants involved in risk management
              activities are provided in [SP800-37] Appendix D, Roles and Responsibilities. Additional
              responsibilities for roles related to the development and management of system plans
              are provided as a supplement to this publication. An organization may identify other
              individuals in roles that directly support system plan development, as needed.
              If an individual has multiple roles related to system security, privacy, or cybersecurity
              supply chain risk management, the system plan may provide additional information for
              managing the separation of duties and define the risk mitigations for any conflicts of
              interest.
              When applicable, identify the roles and responsibilities of personnel responsible for
              external services supporting the system (i.e., account manager, service coordinator).
              These individuals may be different from those identified in information exchange
              artifacts that support [SP800-53] CA-03, Information Exchange.
              Organizations include the following contact information for each identified individual:
              •    Name
              •    Risk-management-related role (e.g., system-specific role, organizational role) 12
              •    Organizational unit, department, or division
              •    Primary business phone number
              •    Alternate business phone number
              •    Business email address
              Restrict contact information to business information to avoid exposing personal
              information. Using personal information (e.g., a home phone or personal cell phone
              number as the “alternate business phone number”) may create unnecessary privacy
              risks for the individuals identified as having a role protecting the system.


12
     Identifying the risk-management related role of an individual can be more indicative of system responsibility than a position or title.



                                                                           18
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                         Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                      C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        Related plan elements: System Overview, Authorization Boundary Description

System Information Types
        Discussion: Identify the [SP800-60v2] information types processed, stored, and
        transmitted by the system. Understanding the information types handled by the system
        and the information life cycle for each information type across all stages of the system
        life cycle can assist the system owner in recognizing where security and privacy risks
        could arise, identifying considerations for protecting the information, and applying
        controls where they can be most effective.
        The types of information handled by the system in support of organizational
        mission/business functions and processes are key to determining the system security
        category and the initial selection of controls.
        Related plan elements: System Categorization

Laws, Regulations, and Policies Affecting the System Requirements
        Discussion: Identify the sources of specific requirements for the:
            •      Confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the system components and
                   information
            •      Predictability, manageability, and disassociability of information processed,
                   stored, or transmitted by the system
            •      Acquisition of trustworthy system components through the supply chain
        Organizational policies may identify the laws, regulations, and policies that are
        applicable to all systems within the organization or include a standardized list of
        requirement sources in an organizational template for system plans. As the legal and
        regulatory landscape evolves, the system plans are updated to adapt to new security,
        privacy, and cybersecurity supply chain risk management requirements, such as those
        that arise from the use of emerging technologies, automated decision-making, and data
        analytics. For example, privacy laws that govern data subject rights directly influence the
        development of the system privacy plan, including how data is handled and how the
        system protects individual rights, frames broader privacy risks, and addresses
        organizational privacy goals. The C-SCRM plan identifies suppliers or products that are
        prohibited by law, subject to regulatory exclusions, and constrained by organization- or
        system-specific policies.
        Related plan elements: System Overview, Control Implementation Details

Authorization Boundary Description
        Discussion: Identify the subsystems and system elements that comprise the system to
        be authorized for operation or use by an authorizing official (i.e., the scope of the
        authorization). Summarize key aspects of the system architecture, including the use of
        subsystems and external service providers; physical or logical separations; local and


                                                   19
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                        Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                     C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        remote management functionalities; customized or specialized components, functions,
        or data flows; and the use of private, public, or hybrid cloud service provider services.
        The description can also identify the following:
            •      Enabling systems that may provide services or functionalities used or inherited
                   by the system or other systems that interact with the operational environment
                   outside of the authorization boundary and may exist outside the environment of
                   operation, as explained in [SP800-37]
            •      System elements that are critical to both the mission and organization
            •      System functions that are subject to additional requirements, such as the
                   protection of CUI
            •      Any third-party authorization services and API implementations as part of the
                   identification of external system services that support the system
            •      The set of common controls to be authorized for inheritance purposes
        While the system security plan may focus on broad cybersecurity risks, the system
        privacy plan highlights the role of the system in handling personal data and the controls
        implemented in response to associated privacy risks. For example, the system privacy
        plan may address how risks related to the collection, use, and sharing of data across
        multiple authorization boundaries are managed and how those practices align with the
        organization’s privacy policies
        Related plan elements: System Type, Environment of Operation Diagrams, System
        Component Inventory

System Component Inventory
        Discussion: Summarize the component inventory provided in the [SP800-53] CM-08,
        System Component Inventory, control implementation. System components are
        discrete, identifiable information technology assets that represent the building blocks of
        a system, including hardware, software, and firmware. Organizations can associate
        distinct hardware and software components with specific system elements defined in
        the authorization boundary. Identify the criticality of individual system components,
        particularly those that support mission-critical functions or multiple system elements.
        The component inventory presented in the privacy plan can support an understanding
        of the components that participate in the business process flows and the data
        transactions that involve individual PII data elements. While specific technical details
        about the components are generally included as part of the security plan, the privacy
        plan can associate specific privacy-related data flows with individual components or
        groups of components (e.g., databases, applications, file storage arrays) which are
        subject to privacy management requirements.


        •   Hardware component description


                                                   20
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                    Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                 C-SCRM Plans for Systems

                o Component function and role
                o Unique component identifier (e.g., serial number, asset tracking identifier, other
                  service codes that identify supply chain information, designation for physical or
                  virtual implementation)
                o Manufacturer and model, including sub-model identifiers or distinctions (e.g.,
                  subcomponent country of origin)
                o Deployment date, warranty duration, expiration date, and maintenance support
                  contract status
                o Specific physical locations (e.g., room number, rack and slot number) or logical
                  locations for virtualized components either hosted on-premises or using external
                  third-party services
                o Differentiate between physical and virtual “hardware” components that host the
                  software products that support organizational missions, business functions, and
                  mission/business processes
          •     Software product description
                o Purpose
                o Product type (e.g., COTS, GOTS)
                o Software developer, manufacturer, vendor, and version or build information, as
                  indicated in the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)
                o Secure software development attestation 13
                o Product license
                          Type (e.g., single user, volume license, public license, freeware)
                          Expiration date/renewal date
                          Component installation location
                o Software warranty and maintenance support contract status
          The validation of the SBOM can be addressed as part of the control implementation for
          the retention and management of the software inventory. Reviews of other supplier-
          provided component inventory lists can provide a way to also check for manifestless
          components, which may contain additional vulnerabilities. [SP800-53] SR-04,
          Provenance, provides guidelines for acquiring information about the
          provenance/pedigree 14 of the software and firmware included in the inventory.


13
   [SP800-218] discusses the Secure Software Development Framework (SSDF), which supports the provisions of [EO14028] for ensuring the
secure functionality of software. [OMBM-26-05] provides flexibility for how an agency can confirm the implementation of specific security
practices in the development of software products accounting for associated hardware risks.
14
   Per [SP 800-53], provenance is “the chronology of the origin, development, ownership, location, and changes to a system or system
component and associated data.” Pedigree refers to “the validation of the internal composition and provenance of technologies, products, and
services.”



                                                                     21
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                     Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                  C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        The capture date of the inventory summary can convey the timeliness of the summary
        related to continuous monitoring activities, system plan approval, and system
        authorization. Automation may be used to generate a summary from the authoritative
        inventory data repository.
        Provide a reference to the authoritative system component inventory data repository.
        The system component inventory is often distinct from the organization’s physical
        inventory, which may be handled through a distinct procurement and property
        management repository. For instance, the system component inventory accounts for
        hardware as well as instances of virtualized components on host devices that may not
        be included in the physical inventory repository.
        Related plan elements: Authorization Boundary Description, Environment of Operation
        Diagrams

Environment of Operation Diagrams
        Discussion: Provide visual representations of key internal boundaries, critical
        components, subsystems, primary and secondary data stores, virtual components,
        information exchanges, and services from third-party providers to demonstrate how
        resilience and redundancy are addressed in the system architecture. Supporting
        topology narratives may be included.
        Diagrams may identify the usage of API implementations as part of the identification of
        external system services as well as connection points and data flow for information
        exchanges.
        When developing or generating diagrams, certain system architecture information (e.g.,
        IP addresses, network routing and access rules) may be redacted commensurate with
        organizational system data protection requirements. Additional artifacts associated with
        the diagram may detail information about the architecture, such as IP subnets, MAC
        addresses, and relevant ports that support communication for key services.
        •   System/Subsystem Diagrams
            Identify the physical and logical locations of active system components in the
            authorization boundary inventory. Components are identified based on their roles in
            the system, such as application interfaces, information data stores, or development,
            test, and production environments. Diagrams account for all system components,
            whether they are located on premises, hosted by an external system, virtualized on
            system host devices, physically or logically isolated within the authorization
            boundary, or physically or virtually hosted by third-party service providers.
            Automation may be used to link the components represented in the diagram to the
            inventory source data.
            Physical and environmental protections are identified, including physical entry
            points and the locations of key environmental control systems (e.g., climate control,
            fire control, water control and detection) components, such as sensors and shut-off
            valves.


                                                22
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                       Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                    C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        •   System/Network Architecture Diagrams
            Illustrate the physical and logical boundaries for communication between system
            components, including:
            o Technologies used to define the authorization boundary and to enable
              communication between components and services within the boundary or from
              third-party providers
            o Data routing and traffic controls, including monitoring for suspicious network
              activity
            o Communication routes for specialized components (e.g., operational technology,
              Internet of Things)
            o Components involved in the physical and logical protection of other components
            o Components that are physically or logically isolated (e.g., air-gapped)
        •   Data Flow Diagrams
            Identify the direction of data exchanges and the components that receive and
            transmit data, including:
            o Data types (e.g., privacy, CUI) and associated security impact levels
            o Where data is created, processed, and delivered (e.g., database servers,
              application servers, storage networks, replication services)
            o Where data enters and exits key internal boundaries, including any data loss
              protection mechanisms and flow control mechanisms based on data labels or
              data classification
            o The flow of information that results from information exchanges with external
              organization systems, including any data movement constraints due to laws,
              regulations, policies, or agreement limitations
        Related plan elements: System Type, System Information Types, Authorization
        Boundary Description, System Component Inventory

System Categorization
        Discussion: Assign the security category according to the security impact levels (i.e., low,
        moderate, and high) associated with the information types processed, stored, and
        transmitted by the system following the guidelines in [SP800-60v1]. The security
        category is a key factor when selecting a [SP800-53B] security baseline as the starting
        point for the selection of controls.
        Impact levels are based on risk management activities, system artifacts (e.g., Risk
        Assessment Report, PIA, SORN), guidelines on the categorization of federal information
        and systems [FIPS199], and justifications for adjusting the [SP800-60v2] provisional
        impact levels. Special conditions may be applied to the provisional impact levels for



                                                 23
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                        Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                     C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        each information type. The high-water mark for each of the security impacts determines
        the final system category.
        Related plan elements: System Information Types

Control Implementation Details
        Discussion: Provide implementation details for each control that is selected and
        allocated to the system. Maintaining accurate control implementation details
        throughout the system life cycle supports ongoing assessment and continuous
        monitoring activities that evaluate the effectiveness of the control implementation.
        As explained in [SP800-53], controls are outcome-based and “are selected and
        implemented by the organization in order to satisfy the system requirements.” The
        implementation details reflect how requirement outcomes are achieved, rather than
        restating the control statement as a requirement. System-specific implementation
        details or common control implementation details for a common control plan indicate
        how to address risk management requirements based on the “as-implemented” state of
        the control, including:
        •   Information that addresses basic questions (i.e., who, what, where, when, why, and
            how) about security, privacy, and supply chain risk management requirements
            o Roles or specific entities that are responsible for control implementation,
              including information about shared responsibilities for hybrid controls
            o Components, products, or services associated with the control
            o Results of tailoring activities and tailoring decisions
            o Planned inputs, related data sources, and expected system outputs for controls
              that are implemented in the hardware, software, or firmware components of the
              system
            o Considerations for additional technical objectives (i.e., continuous
              integration/continuous delivery, zero trust architecture, artificial intelligence and
              machine learning) addressed by the control implementation
            o Reliance on automation for control monitoring, including performance
              thresholds defined for the implementation that can be evaluated using
              automation, or a combination of manual and automated methods
        •   Rationale and approval for tailoring associated with the control (see Sec. 4.3.1)
        •   Location of policy and procedure artifacts associated with the implementation
            o Reference sections of operational procedures rather than including the
              procedures in the system plan.
            o Identify sources of information relevant to the control, such as network
              monitoring tools, vulnerability scanning tools, endpoint management tools, and
              GRC, SOAR, and SIEM tools.


                                                 24
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                        Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                     C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        •   Description of metrics that are collected and analyzed to monitor the control
            implementation, including the baseline and threshold definitions used to evaluate
            control conformance to implementation procedures and parameters
        •   Inherited risks from the common control implementations
        •   Control assessment status (i.e., satisfied, other than satisfied)
            o Automation can provide the ability to include the assessment history, including
              the results of control monitoring activities.
            o Reference plans of action and milestones (POA&Ms), remediation, and retest
              artifacts for controls that are identified as “other than satisfied.”
        To address the inheritance of controls from common control providers, the control
        implementation details in the system plan may:
        •   Include a reference to common controls inherited by the system
            o Implementation details for common controls are provided in the artifacts
              developed by common control providers that are made available to system
              owners.
            o Controls that are inherited from cloud service providers may require additional
              documentation, such as the Control Implementation Summary/Customer
              Responsibility Matrix (CIS/CRM), which conveys the control implementation
              responsibilities between the cloud service provider and their customer.
        •   Provide system-specific implementation details for hybrid controls with
            considerations for:
            o Which parts of the control are provided by the common control provider or are
              implemented at the system level
            o How the associated security, privacy, and cybersecurity supply chain risks are
              shared between the system and the common control provider
        Control implementation details in the C-SCRM plan reflect the mitigation of
        cybersecurity risks throughout the supply chain. [SP800-161] Appendix A, C-SCRM
        Security Controls, discusses the application of C-SCRM controls, requiring controls to
        flow down through key suppliers, and controls for monitoring adherence with
        organizational supply chain requirements. Implementation details for C-SCRM controls
        reference applicable organizational and mission/business process policies that provide
        inherited controls or are issued by the chief information officer (CIO), senior
        accountable official for risk management, C-SCRM PMO, or senior procurement
        executive.
        Control implementation details in a system privacy plan differ from those in system
        security and C-SCRM plans in several ways, including:
        •   Scope and focus: While the system security plan primarily addresses safeguarding
            the system against unauthorized access and ensuring data confidentiality, integrity,


                                                 25
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                       Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                    C-SCRM Plans for Systems

            and availability, the system privacy plan focuses on the broader implications of data
            processing. This includes considerations such as the context of data use, the
            potential impact on individuals, and adherence to privacy principles (e.g.,
            transparency, data minimization, purpose specification). In this way, privacy controls
            may address more foundational data handling and data governance in pursuit of
            privacy objectives.
        •   Privacy-specific risks: The system privacy plan addresses privacy-specific risks that
            might arise, even from authorized data processing activities. For example, privacy
            controls might include measures to minimize data collection to only what is
            necessary, restrict data sharing with third parties, or implement mechanisms that
            allow individuals to exercise their rights over their personal data. The system privacy
            plan may address privacy-specific risks that may arise from cybersecurity or C-SCRM
            controls, such as monitoring for insider threats.
        •   Individual autonomy and transparency: Privacy controls often emphasize giving
            individuals control over their data (i.e., autonomy) and ensuring that individuals are
            informed about how their data is processed (i.e., transparency). These aspects may
            require different implementations compared to security controls, which are
            primarily concerned with protecting systems and information rather than
            individuals.
        Related plan elements: Control Implementation Status, Control Assessment Status

System Plan Approval
        Discussion: System plan approval is critical prior to control implementation for systems
        under development. By approving the system plans before the system is in operation,
        the authorizing official or designated representative accepts and agrees to the allocated
        set of controls, the proposed implementation of the allocated controls, and the
        inheritance of controls from common control provider plans. Input from other
        organizational officials provides information to support the approval of system plans.
        For example:
        •   System security plan approval includes concurrence between the system owner and
            the senior accountable official for risk management or risk executive (function), CIO,
            or senior agency information security officer.
        •   System privacy plan approval includes concurrence between the system owner and
            the senior agency official for privacy to demonstrate alignment between the
            organization’s privacy and security programs.
        •   C-SCRM plan approval includes coordination with the C-SCRM PMO.
        System plan approval includes the full names, system roles, organizational titles,
        signatures, and signature dates of the individuals who approved the plan. Information
        management tools and document management systems can electronically capture the
        required signatures from the appropriate approvers.



                                                26
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                    Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                 C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        The system owner or common control provider is responsible for updates to the system
        plan. System plan reviews and change records, along with the subsequent
        reauthorization or ongoing authorization of the system, ensure that updates to the
        system plan based on the “as-implemented” state of the controls are reviewed and
        approved [SP800-37] by the authorizing official.
        Approval of the system plans does not authorize the operation of the system or the
        offering of common controls for inheritance.
        Related plan elements: System Plan Review Records, System Plan Change Records

Control Implementation Status
        Discussion: Identify the implementation status of the control following the system plan
        approval. The control implementation status indicator may be included in the control
        implementation details.
        Typical control implementation status indicators include:
        •   Planned: Control is selected but implementation has not started.
        •   Partially Implemented: Planned control implementation has started but has not
            been completed. This may indicate that an implemented control is in the process of
            being changed based on items in POA&Ms.
        •   Fully Implemented: The “as-implemented” state of the control has been fully
            realized in the operational system.
        Details related to the timeline for full implementation may be provided. For complex
        systems, the control implementation status may differentiate the control
        implementation status for individual subsystems that may be at different stages of
        planning and development.
        Related plan elements: Control Implementation Details

Information Exchanges Summary
        Discussion: Summarize the information exchanges that are defined between the system
        and systems outside of the authorization boundary [SP800-47], whether inside or
        outside the organization. Agreements can vary based on the impact level of the
        information being exchanged, the relationship between the organizations exchanging
        information, or the level of access granted to personnel from the interconnected
        system.
        The summary of information exchanges may include information about outstanding
        risks from the interconnected systems to support the implementation of secure system
        interconnections. Information collected about each valid information exchange in which
        the system participates may include the following, as determined by the organization
        implementation of the [SP800-53] CA-03, Information Exchange, control:




                                               27
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                     Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                  C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        •   Type of agreement used for the information exchange (e.g., information exchange
            agreement, interconnection security agreement, memorandum of agreement,
            memorandum of understanding)
        •   Effective start and end dates of the agreement based on the acceptance signatures
            provided in the agreement artifact
        •   Systems participating in the agreement, including:
            o Name, role, title, and organization of the system owner and authorizing official
            o System name and unique system identifier assigned by the system owner’s
              organization
            o FIPS 199 categorization of the system and the information being exchanged
            o System authorization decisions status
        •   Brief description of the exchange, including purpose, type of data, and expected
            outputs
        •   Method of information exchange (e.g., virtual private network, extranet, dedicated
            data transfer application)
        •   Interface characteristics that explain how the information is being exchanged
            between the systems
        •   Diagrams that show the data flows, system components, and technologies involved
        •   Findings and mitigation strategies that are relevant to the components involved in
            the information exchange and may be identified in:
            o Security, privacy, or cybersecurity supply chain risk assessment reports;
            o Security and privacy control assessments; or
            o Information security continuous monitoring (ISCM) processes that identify
              security and privacy risks and mitigation strategies.
        Exchanges that involve data about individuals have the potential to introduce additional
        privacy risks. The system privacy plan describes protections for ensuring the
        confidentiality and integrity of data about individuals during transmission and storage,
        including details about the information being exchanged, the organizations and systems
        involved, and data sharing and service agreements between the system and entities that
        are outside of the authorization boundary.
        Related plan elements: System Overview, Authorization Boundary Description,
        Environment of Operation Diagrams, Control Implementation Details

Control Assessment Status
        Discussion: Identify the assessment status of the control. The plan can specify whether
        the control was “satisfied” or “other than satisfied” based on the requirements provided
        in the assessment plan. The assessment status may specify when the control was last


                                               28
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                        Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                     C-SCRM Plans for Systems

           assessed and provide a reference to the assessment report and the assessment plan
           that explains the scope, breadth, and depth of the assessment performed.
           The control assessment status indicator may be included in the control implementation
           details. Automation can provide the ability to include the assessment history, including
           the results of control monitoring activities. References to POA&Ms and retest artifacts
           may be included for controls identified as “other than satisfied.”
           Related plan elements: Control Implementation Details, Control Implementation Status

Remediation Actions
           Discussion: Identify the status of control remediation actions that result from
           assessment activities. A list of outstanding risk remediation activities, including POA&M
           items and system changes that result from control monitoring, can provide information
           about the risk posture of the system to organizational leadership, risk managers, and
           the managers of systems with which information exchange agreements are in place.
           The control assessment status indicator may be included in the control implementation
           details. Automating the generation of this information based on assessment reports and
           monitoring results provides transparency about existing threats and vulnerabilities that
           have not been fully remediated.
           Related plan elements: Control Implementation Details, Control Implementation Status,
           Control Assessment Status

Digital Identity Acceptance Statement (DIAS) (optional)
           Discussion: Organization- and system-level risk assessments determine the extent to
           which risk is managed by various processes, 15 which in turn drive decisions regarding
           applicable technologies and mitigation strategies. During the risk management process,
           the organization determines the assurance levels for identity proofing, authentication,
           and federation, if applicable; selects appropriate processes and technologies to meet
           each assurance level; and identifies compensating controls when necessary.
           The DIAS is not required to be included in the system plan but is required to be included
           in the system authorization package for federal systems.
           Related plan elements: System Authorization Decision

System Authorization Decision
           Discussion: The authorization decision is made by the authorizing official before the
           system is put into the operational environment and to maintain its operational status.
           The system plan may refer to authorization decision artifacts, such as an authorization
           to operate (ATO) letter or memorandum issued by the authorizing official, to explain the
           terms and conditions of the authorization decision. If the organization implements a

15
  [SP 800-63-4] guidelines refer to the Identity Assurance Level (IAL), Authenticator AL (AAL), and Federation AL (FAL) as xAL, where “x” refers
to either I, A, or F for the individual assurance levels.



                                                                       29
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        program for ongoing system authorization, the ongoing authorization decision
        information may be referenced in the system plan. The organization determines how to
        identify the authorization status of the system as a part of an ISCM strategy that
        includes ongoing authorization.
        Related plan elements: Remediation Actions

System Operational Status
        Discussion: Identify the readiness of the system and related subsystems within the
        environment of operation. Common status indicators include:
        •   Under development: The system is being designed or developed and is not fully
            functioning in an operational environment.
        •   Operational: The authorized system is operating in the operational environment.
        •   Undergoing a significant modification: The authorized operational system is
            undergoing a significant change to the operational environment that is likely to
            substantively affect the security, privacy, or supply chain posture of a system.
            [SP800-37]
        •   Disposal: The system is no longer authorized or operational.
        Organizations may use other operational status indicators as needed based on the
        components and services within the environment of operation.
        For complex systems, include the operational status of the subsystems within the
        authorization boundary. Using automation, the operational status of key components
        within the system or subsystems can be identified to provide organizational
        management with a full accounting of the status of the mission or business process
        supported by the system.
        Related plan elements: System Overview, System Authorization Decision

System Plan Review Records
        Discussion: System plan reviews ensure accountability for periodic (e.g., life cycle
        milestones, gate reviews, significant contracting activities) and ad hoc changes.
        Organization-designated individuals can verify the accuracy and completeness of the
        information in the system plans and alignment between system plans.
        A system plan review log records the name and role of the individual performing the
        review, the review date, the feedback generated during the review process, and
        associated notes. The review record may include additional information, such as:
        •   Dates of review
        •   Review Participants
        •   Notable outcomes (i.e., recommended revisions, concerns, other action items)



                                                30
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

        Updates to the system plan are approved and applied as part of organizational or
        system-specific change management processes. The records help management
        understand the content updates that have been implemented and verify that the
        authorization package contains the most current revision of the system plans.
        Related plan elements: System Plan Approval, Control Implementation Status, Control
        Assessment Status

System Plan Change Records
        Discussion: A system plan change record focuses on specific updates that are made to
        the system plan. Updates to the system plan are often the result of changes to the
        system that are approved and applied as part of organization- or system-specific change
        management processes implemented as part of [SP800-53] CM-03, Configuration
        Change Control. A system plan change record can include the following information:
        •   Date of revision
        •   Plan revision identifier
        •   Identity of individual making the system plan change
        •   The system plan elements affected (e.g., control implementation details,
            authorization boundary description, information exchange summary)
        •   Details of the plan changes (e.g., controls affected, role assignment changes,
            updated links to referenced artifacts)
        The records help management understand the content updates that have been
        implemented and verify that the authorization package contains the most current
        revision of the system plans. While document management processes may require
        manual change record updates, information management tools (e.g., IT service desk
        solutions, ticketing systems) can automatically track changes made to specific system
        plan elements. Organizational and system managers can generate reports that identify
        the users who approved and implemented individual changes to the system plans.
        Related plan elements: System Plan Approval, Control Implementation Details,
        Remediation Actions

3.3. Automation Support for System Plan Information
Automating the collection of system plan element information can increase the effectiveness
and efficiency of maintaining system plans. Organizations have the flexibility to decide when,
where, and how to use automation tools (e.g., GRC, SOAR, SIEM) to manage information for the
system plan elements associated with each system. For instance, automation tools can:




                                                31
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

     •     Capture control implementation status information to demonstrate ongoing risk
           management activities, 16
     •     Support the tracking of POA&M activities to ensure that remediation actions are
           completed,
     •     Facilitate the management of system plan reviews, and
     •     Control access to system plan information.
While some organizations have the resources to implement dedicated, organization-wide
information management tools to manage many system plans, organizations with limited
resources may be able to leverage commercially available services (e.g., office productivity
applications, open-source solutions, cloud-based services) to manage information for the
limited number of system plans within the organization.
NIST does not recommend, endorse, or certify specific products, vendors, or technologies for
the automation of system plan development and maintenance.

3.3.1. System Plan Information Collection
The information contained in the system elements may be collected from both organization-
wide and system-specific data sources, including:
     •     System component inventory information (e.g., technology, function, role, and
           configuration of components used within the operational environment 17)
     •     Personnel contact information from an organizational directory
     •     Information types that are detected within the system but excluded from system
           categorization determination
     •     Changes to common controls and the inherited portion of hybrid controls
     •     Changes to system plan information to enforce separation of duties
     •     New, in-process, and resolved POA&Ms
The collected information informs various management activities, such as prioritizing security,
privacy, or C-SCRM initiatives and allocating resources based on impact priorities. Automating
the collection of system-level risk information in a centralized repository following organization-
defined data standards can reduce inconsistencies that may lead to erroneous risk-based
decisions.


16
   The [OSCAL] implementation layer includes a system security plan model that allows for the granular implementation and documentation of
various controls (e.g., security, privacy, safety, accessibility) that require automated governance, risk management, and compliance processes.
The OSCAL resources provide additional information and examples at https://nist.gov/OSCAL (documentation),
https://github.com/usnistgov/OSCAL (OSCAL models), and https://github.com/usnistgov/oscal-content (OSCAL SP 800-53 catalog, SP 800-53B
baselines, and SP 800-53A included in the OSCAL catalog).
17
   [OSCAL] provides a “Component Definition” model that can be used by vendors to convey how controls are implemented by their products or
by organizations to create playbooks that describe the implementation of specific controls that support secure configurations for system
components.



                                                                      32
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                       Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                    C-SCRM Plans for Systems

3.3.2. System Plan Information Sharing and Usability
Maintaining system plan element information in a central repository using well-designed user
interfaces (e.g., dashboards, search functions, reporting methods) in place of potentially
lengthy traditional security plan artifacts may improve the responsiveness of risk-based
decision-making. Increased information usability supports various stakeholders, including:
    •   Senior leadership and risk managers to evaluate the organizational risk profile across all
        systems in the organization’s inventory
    •   Authorizing officials, senior agency officials for privacy, and system owners to quickly
        locate, review, and update specific system plan elements in support of continuous
        monitoring activities and ongoing authorization processes
    •   System management personnel to track approval processes for change management
        functions and review control implementation metrics
The dashboard interfaces and reporting functions of organization-wide information
management tools can ensure that authorized personnel receive updates on system
component inventory information and the status of risk management efforts, including the
system’s operational status, assessment and reauthorization schedules, POA&M statuses (e.g.,
late POA&Ms, expiring POA&Ms), and accepted risk information.
Information management tools may share control implementation statuses, control assessment
statuses, and implementation details with system owners and other authorized individuals
from:
    •   Interconnected systems within the organization,
    •   Systems inheriting common controls, and
    •   External organizations participating in approved information exchanges.
Relevant control assessment status information may also be shared in support of information
exchanges with external organizations.
Information that is relevant to the preparation, planning, and execution of control assessments
can be restricted to prevent the inadvertent release of system information by third-party
assessors. Assessors may be given limited access to input assessment results and artifacts
directly into the information management tool to generate assessment reports.

3.3.3. System Plan Information Management
Automation facilitates system plan information management throughout the system life cycle,
including:
    •   Tracking changes to system plan elements, including control implementations,
        agreements for information exchanges, POA&Ms, and supporting roles
    •   Managing specific configuration settings on defined components within a system or
        across all systems within the organization to facilitate continuous monitoring reporting


                                                 33
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

    •   Alerting organizational leaders and system management of changes or inconsistencies in
        the collected system plan information
    •   Generating system plans using organization-approved templates to minimize the
        duplication of element-specific content (e.g., system description, system environment,
        identification of roles related to risk management or system operations)
Automation can be particularly useful in assessing and continuously monitoring controls
throughout the system life cycle. Storing system plan data in machine-readable formats can
facilitate updates to control implementation details due to assessment results, control catalog
or baseline updates, and other system changes. For example, POA&Ms for “other than
satisfied” findings in a machine-readable assessment report can trigger updates to system plans
and other system artifacts that are stored within a central repository.

3.3.4. System Plan Information Protection
Organizations determine the level of protection required for system plan element information
based on the system’s information types [SP800-60v2] and organizational requirements.
Centralized access control policies in an organization-wide information management tool can
manage logical access to information about the system to:
    •   Limit the visibility of information about the system to specific access holders based on
        their management role
    •   Ensure that only authorized users can update system information, review change
        records, and approve changes that have been made
Additional access controls can be applied to prevent unauthorized access to the system’s
weakness and vulnerability information. Organization- and system-specific policies may further
control access to technical details about the system, such as IP addresses, vulnerability
information, and architectural designs.




                                                34
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                           Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                        C-SCRM Plans for Systems

4. System Plan Development Through the Risk Management Framework Steps
The following subsections provide organizational leadership and risk managers with a broader
understanding of each RMF step in relation to the development and maintenance of system
plans. The RMF provides a methodology for managing system risks using organizational policies
and system-level procedures to support system plan development, including responsibilities,
ongoing reviews and updates, the approval of system plans, and assessments of control
implementations. Fig. 2 shows the seven steps of the RMF.




                            Fig. 2. NIST Risk Management Framework Steps


4.1. Prepare
System plans support organization- and system-level risk management strategies, including
regulatory and compliance obligations that define system-level requirements. To enable
oversight and promote accountability, the plans designate individuals with roles and
responsibilities for security, privacy, and supply chain risk management, such as those identified
in [SP800-37] Appendix D, Roles and Responsibilities. These roles align with broader
organizational information security and privacy program plans [SP800-37] and the C-SCRM
strategy and implementation plan [SP800-161] for consistency across all systems within the
organization.
Common control providers develop system plan artifacts that identify and provide
implementation details for inheritable common controls. A common control plan describes
privacy protections (e.g., data minimization, transparency, consent management) and identifies
systems outside of the authorization boundary as a common control provider from which
implemented controls are inherited. Inherent relationships with common control providers may
be based on specific operational relationships with service providers in the supply chain.
Organizations may develop tailored control baselines for systems with specialized or
unconventional mission, business, or operational requirements to provide details that are
incorporated into system plans, including:
    •   Predetermined organization-defined parameter (ODP) values for control assignment and
        selection operations


                                                35
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                        Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                     C-SCRM Plans for Systems

    •   Additional controls, control enhancements, and compensating controls to address
        organization-specific risks
    •   Supplemental scoping information to explain the applicability of the tailored controls to
        specialized system, system element, or component operations based on security and
        privacy assumptions

Prepare — System Level
When the system life cycle is initiated, key information is collected to inform initial drafts of
system plans, including:
    •   The mission or business focus supported by the system
    •   System stakeholders
    •   The information types handled by system
    •   Unique security and privacy risks in the information life cycle that are managed across
        the entire data ecosystem
    •   How the authorization boundary is defined within the organizational infrastructure or
        enterprise architecture
The organization assigns a system identifier to associate component inventory records, device
event audit records, and system-related artifacts.
The system-level C-SCRM plan provides a context for how organizational C-SCRM policies are
applied at the system level by enumerating requirements, describing constraints, and
addressing other supply chain risk implications. C-SCRM plans for systems align with the
established organization-wide risk tolerances and C-SCRM strategy. Many organizations choose
to enable systems to inherit common controls that support the organization or enterprise
C-SCRM requirements. In cases where multiple components within an organization are
responsible for different subsets of the same system, the organization decides the scope of the
C-SCRM plan.
During each of the subsequent RMF steps, the system plans are revised or updated to add
additional information as the system is developed.

Defining the Authorization Boundary
The system plans identify how data flows through various subsystems, third-party services, and
external networks to ensure that privacy risks are managed comprehensively. The authorization
boundary establishes the scope of protection for the system based on mission, management, or
budgetary responsibilities. Privacy risks can arise at any stage of data processing because of the
interconnected nature of modern systems, and identifying and responding to them may require
looking beyond the authorization boundary.
System-specific C-SCRM concerns may include risks derived from suppliers that are several
layers removed from the end user or supply chain risks associated with specific organization-
defined technologies. For example, C-SCRM considers the complexities of new technologies and


                                                 36
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

dynamic system interdependencies that can result in suppliers gaining incidental access 18 to
data. C-SCRM plan considerations include vendor-controlled SaaS offerings, hybrid or cloud
environments, open-source software, information and communications technology and
operational technology from suppliers outside of Trade Agreements Act nations, general
procurement from unauthorized resellers, and supply chains of emerging technologies, such as
artificial intelligence capabilities.

4.2. Categorize
The system’s [FIPS199] security categorization reflects potential adverse impacts of the loss of
confidentiality, integrity, or availability; determines the [FIPS200] minimum security
requirements; and supports the RMF Select step. Security categorization information in the
system plan provides the rationale for categorization decisions, including privacy and C-SCRM
impacts [SP800-60v2]. Approving the security categorization may require additional input from
the senior agency official for privacy and the senior procurement official.
To account for both privacy and security risks in system plans, impact levels for each
information type reflect potential adverse impacts on organizational operations and assets and
the privacy of individuals whose data is processed by the system. Privacy impacts are informed
by other risk management activities and documentation, such as PIAs, SORNs, MOUs, and the
NIST PRAM.
The C-SCRM plan is generally developed for high- and moderate-impact systems, as indicated in
[SP800-161]. However, there is value in developing the C-SCRM plan to protect low-impact
systems as well, particularly if the low-impact system uses the same components found in high-
and moderate-impact systems. In the absence of a C-SCRM plan for a low-impact system, the
system security plan can identify the inheritance of C-SCRM controls from organization-level
common control providers, enumerate organizational and system risk tolerances, and
demonstrate the acceptance versus the transfer or mitigation of cybersecurity supply chain
risks via system-specific controls.

4.3. Select
The organization determines the approach for selecting, tailoring, and allocating controls for
systems based on system requirements. System plans identify the controls that are selected
and allocated to the system for implementation. [SP800-37] describes two approaches for
selecting controls:
     •     Organization-generated control selection: The organization uses its own process to
           select and tailor the controls in the system plan based on a variety of factors, including
           organizational mission or business priorities, system capabilities, the context in which
           the system operates, and threats. Organizations may consider applicable Cybersecurity


18
  This derives from the work done regarding third-party risks in the Zero Trust Data Security Guide [ZTDATASEC], which discusses third parties
and suppliers with incidental access to data. [SP 800-88] provides minimum sanitization requirements for use in determining recommended
sanitization methods for specific media to minimize data remanence and the availability of residual data.



                                                                      37
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                        Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                     C-SCRM Plans for Systems

           and Privacy Framework Profiles to identify controls that support the achievement of
           security and privacy risk management outcomes.
     •     Baseline control selection: Controls in the organizationally tailored control baselines
           that were determined during the RMF Prepare step are factored into the control
           selection process. The initial security baselines in [SP800-53B] group controls that are
           designed to support the [FIPS200] minimum security requirements for systems based on
           the [FIPS199] security impact level.
The initial privacy baseline in [SP800-53B] identifies controls for federal agencies to address
privacy requirements and manage privacy risks that arise from processing data about
individuals based on privacy program responsibilities under [OMBA-130]. 19 These controls are
rooted in privacy engineering objectives and are designed to respond to privacy risks with
effective data protection strategies. System privacy and security officials collaborate on the
selection of privacy controls to ensure that both privacy and security risks are managed,
particularly in areas where the risks overlap.
Organizations can use a control overlay (e.g., C-SCRM extended overlay 20) as a starting point for
selecting controls with broad-based support across communities of interest for specific
circumstances, situations, and conditions [SCOR].
Completing the tasks in the RMF Select step results in system plans that explain how the
security, privacy, and C-SCRM risk management controls are being met for information that is
transmitted, processed, and stored by the system.

4.3.1. Control Tailoring
The control tailoring activities in [SP800-53B] provide flexibility for aligning the allocated
controls with system-specific needs, such as addressing organizational policies or specific use
cases in the system’s environment of operation. Tailoring can address the impacts associated
with poor quality or counterfeit products, supplier misuse of intellectual property, supplier
tampering with or compromise of mission-critical information, and exposure to cyber attacks
through vulnerable supplier systems.
The system plans record the justification and decision for control tailoring activities, including:
     •     Common controls that are inherited by the system from common control providers;
     •     Scoping considerations for selected controls;
     •     Compensating controls that are selected and allocated;


19
   Implementing the privacy control baseline does not necessarily mean that a federal agency has met all of its obligations under [OMB A-130].
Agencies may be required to take additional, separate actions to fully comply with OMB privacy requirements. Documenting all actions to
address privacy risk management and compliance efforts in the system privacy plan can provide essential information to support control
assessments, authorization decisions, and control monitoring processes.
20
   [SP 800-161] includes specific C-SCRM instructions for selecting, tailoring, and implementing controls based on (i) the environments in which
enterprise information systems are acquired and operate; (ii) the nature of operations conducted by enterprises; (iii) the types of threats facing
enterprises, mission and business processes, supply chains, and information systems; and (iv) the type of information processed, stored, or
transmitted by information systems and the supply chain infrastructure.



                                                                       38
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

     •     ODP values for control assignment and selection operations;
     •     Additional controls that supplement the baseline, such as controls based on
           Cybersecurity and Privacy Framework Profiles; 21
     •     Additional specification information for control implementation; and
     •     Controls that are tailored out of the selected control baseline.
Security, privacy, and supply chain risk management officials coordinate to adequately address
overlapping requirements and potential conflicts related to tailoring activities, and all decisions
are approved through the system plan approval process. However, only the authorizing official
can accept the risks associated with removing controls from the selected baseline.
Tailoring can involve enhancing existing controls to meet system-specific operational needs,
such as strengthening consent mechanisms or implementing stricter access controls for high-
risk data processing activities. Privacy officials tailor controls to address system-specific privacy
requirements (e.g., additional safeguards for health or financial data) and confirm that tailoring
decisions do not result in compliance gaps or additional privacy risks. The C-SCRM PMO can
provide input for C-SCRM plan development through tailored common controls that may apply
across the organization or mission, such as supplier risk assessments.

4.3.2. Identification of Planned Control Implementations
System plans identify the intended system-specific application of each allocated control along
with an adequate level of implementation detail to support the assessment and monitoring of
the control and associated control enhancements. Controls that are partially implemented by a
common control provider are identified in the system plan as hybrid controls. Implementation
details for the system-specific part of hybrid controls describe the risk management
responsibilities that are shared between the system and the common control provider.
For fully inherited or hybrid controls, system plans reference the source of the common control
to avoid duplicating the common control implementation details. 22 Notes may be added to the
implementation details to describe how fully inherited controls address system requirements.
Control implementation details in the system privacy plan describe how the controls meet
privacy-specific requirements, such as those that address risks related to the processing of
personal information, the context of data use, and potential consequences for individuals.

4.3.3. Plan Review and Approval
The senior agency official for privacy is responsible for reviewing and approving the system
privacy plan or consolidated plan before it is submitted to the authorizing official or designated
representative. This review ensures that privacy risks have been thoroughly identified and that

21
   The National Online Informative References Program maps CSF Subcategories to [SP 800-53] controls, and the NIST Privacy Engineering
Program maps the Privacy Framework to [SP 800-53] controls.
22
   If the common control provider implementation details are considered controlled information (e.g., those associated with a cloud service
provider or cloud service offering), restrictions in applicable service agreements related to the distribution of organizational and system
information are followed.



                                                                      39
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                   Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                C-SCRM Plans for Systems

privacy controls and risk management strategies are aligned with organizational policies, legal
requirements, and privacy objectives. When reviewing the system-specific C-SCRM plan in the
authorization package, authorizing officials consult with the C-SCRM PMO as well as
acquisitions personnel in cases of technology procurements. The C-SCRM review ensures that
the C-SCRM controls and risk management strategies align with the overall organizational risk
tolerances.
The authorizing official may request additional input from the senior accountable official for
risk management, CIO, senior agency information security officer, senior agency official for
privacy, or senior procurement executive to support the system plan approval decision.
     •    If the system plans are acceptable, the authorizing official or designated representative
          approves the system plans, enabling the system owner to begin execution of the RMF
          Implement step.
     •    If the system plans are unacceptable, the authorizing official or designated
          representative may recommend changes for the system owner or common control
          provider to implement.
Approving system plans at this step does not authorize system operation or the offering of
common controls for inheritance. System authorization to operate, authorization to use, or
common control authorization are tasks in the RMF Authorize step.

4.4. Implement
Allocated controls are designed, built, tested, and deployed following the details in the system
plans. If a control is not implemented as planned or requires additional compensating controls,
the system plans are updated to reflect the details of the actual “as-implemented” controls and
the selected compensating controls.

4.5. Assess
Control assessments are based on the information in system plans to prepare for, create, and
execute an assessment plan [SP800-53A]. Personnel update the system plans based on
remediation actions that are taken to resolve control deficiencies reported during the
assessment. At the conclusion of the control assessment, system plans provide a “point-in-
time” understanding of the system’s operation and the implemented controls that support the
RMF Authorize step. 23

4.6. Authorize
The system owner or common control provider assembles and submits an authorization
package to the authorizing official for an authorization decision. The authorization package

23
   A system may go through multiple assessments and system plan updates during the system development life cycle in preparation for the RMF
Authorize step.



                                                                    40
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                     Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                  C-SCRM Plans for Systems

includes the system security and system privacy plans as well as any additional artifacts that
demonstrate risk management activities (e.g., signed interconnection agreements, signed
SBOM artifacts, signed POA&M completion artifacts) to enable an informed authorization
decision. The C-SCRM plan is not required but is recommended if supply chain risk management
is a key organizational concern.
The senior agency official for privacy reviews the authorization package to verify that the
system aligns with organizational privacy objectives and legal obligations. The authorizing
official relies on information in the system plan and feedback from the system owner and
senior agency officials to:
     •    Authorize a system to operate or be used within the organization,
     •    Issue a common control authorization, or
     •    Deny authorization to the system or common control provider to protect the
          organization from risks that are outside of established organizational risk tolerances.
The authorization decision is included in the authorization package, identified in the system
plans, and relayed to the system owner, common control provider, and other organization
officials as appropriate.

4.7. Monitor
System plans are reviewed and revised on an organization-defined schedule 24 to ensure their
continued accuracy and relevancy after authorization. Reviews may occur in response to events
that affect security, privacy, or C-SCRM risks, such as:
     •    Revisions to the [SP800-53] security and privacy control catalog, [SP800-53B] control
          baselines, or [SP800-53A] assessment procedures
     •    New or revised laws, regulations, and organizational policies that affect security,
          privacy, or C-SCRM requirements
     •    Updates to the system risk assessment report, often resulting from threat intelligence,
          that identify new risks that render existing controls less effective
     •    Weaknesses identified during control assessments and monitoring or after a security,
          privacy, or supply chain cybersecurity incident or compromise (e.g., system data breach)
     •    Changes that significantly alter the risk posture of the system and justify control
          reassessment and system reauthorization (e.g., revisions to the information types or
          special factors that affect system categorization, the selection and implementation of
          additional controls, additional tailoring activities that align control implementations with
          identified risks)



24
   [SP 800-53] controls PL-02, System Security and Privacy Plans, and SR-02, Supply Chain Risk Management Plan discuss requirements for the
frequency of system plan reviews.



                                                                     41
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                       Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                    C-SCRM Plans for Systems

    •   Changes to key system personnel (e.g., if the authorizing official changes, the incoming
        authorizing official reviews the system plans and artifacts to confirm the existing
        authorization or issue a new authorization decision)
    •   Changes to the operational status of the system (e.g., promoting the system from
        “in development” to “operational,” system disposal)
    •   Renewal of or modifications to existing agreements for information exchanges, the
        creation of new information exchanges, or the termination of information exchanges
        [SP800-47]
    •   Changes to the organizational baseline supply chain risk strategy or inherited C-SCRM
        controls due to:
        o Changes in critical suppliers that potentially affect supply chain risks, including
          ownership changes, mergers and acquisitions activity, and geopolitical or
          environmental activity
        o Reviews of suppliers’ foreign ownership, control, or influence (FOCI)
        o Cybersecurity attacks or data breaches that affect a supplier’s ability to support
          confidentiality, integrity, or availability objectives
Change management processes ensure that updates to system plans are tracked and noted.
Specific procedures for tracking and managing modifications, including the use of revision or
version identifiers to maintain a record of changes, can be included in the system configuration
management plan. Automating information collection methods (see Sec. 3.3) can result in more
efficient and effective system plan maintenance.

Reauthorization or Ongoing Authorization
The operation of an authorized system requires periodic or ongoing assessments to verify that
the implemented controls continue to effectively satisfy security, privacy, and C-SCRM
requirements [SP800-53A]. Authorizing officials can reauthorize the system based on these
assessment results or update system plans to reflect changes to the control implementation
details and environment of operation after ISCM activities [SP800-137].
For example, the system privacy plan can define privacy metrics (e.g., access requests from
individuals, data sharing frequency, incidents) that are regularly analyzed during monitoring
activities to track trends and risks. The system privacy officer is responsible for identifying
assessment methodologies and metrics to determine whether privacy controls are
implemented correctly, operating as intended, and complying with applicable privacy
requirements. Appropriate updates to privacy controls and the system privacy plan can
strengthen protections.
Additionally, the system C-SCRM plan can identify a continuous monitoring capability for critical
suppliers to alert system owners to changes that might affect the system’s risk posture. New
critical components or technology refresh activities can trigger reviews of and updates to the
C-SCRM plan, which may require system reauthorization.



                                                 42
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                           Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                        C-SCRM Plans for Systems

Disposal of System Components
System components and information assets may be disposed of at any time during the system
life cycle, which may introduce opportunities for the compromise of stored data. System plans
can include or reference the instructions for properly disposing of systems or components (e.g.,
sanitization of storage media) in accordance with applicable data and records retention
requirements, such as those provided by the National Archives and Records Administration
[NARARECM]. Component disposal records may be referenced in the system plan to indicate
the date of component disposal and details about the information assets that are transferred to
other systems. Updates to the system component inventory may trigger additional updates to
the system plans to reflect changes in the environment of operation.
Key considerations for the removal of a system or system elements from operation include the
responsibilities of the system owner for protecting system data, the responsibility of the
authorizing official for risks associated with data remanence, 25 and the organizational liability
for inadequate data sanitization. Demonstrating due diligence can address the legal and
financial liabilities of data breaches caused by inadequate sanitization, unauthorized access to
residual data, or the improper transfer of data to another system.




25
     [SP 800-88] defines remanence as “residual information remaining on storage media.”



                                                                      43
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                       Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                    C-SCRM Plans for Systems

References
                                    LAWS AND EXECUTIVE ORDERS

[EO14028]          Executive Order 14028 (2021) Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity. (The
                   White House, Washington, DC), DCPD-202100401, May 12, 2021. Available at
                   https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/DCPD-202100401
[44USC3502]        Title 44 U.S. Code, Sec. 3502, Definitions. 2017 ed. Available at
                   https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/USCODE-2023-title44/USCODE-2023-
                   title44-chap35-subchapI-sec3502
[44USC3552]        Title 44 U.S. Code, Sec. 3552, Definitions, 2023 ed. Available at
                   https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/USCODE-2023-title44/USCODE-2023-
                   title44-chap35-subchapII-sec3552
[FASCSA]           Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security Act of 2018 (FASCSA), Title II of the
                   Strengthening and Enhancing Cyber-capabilities by Utilizing Risk Exposure
                   Technology Act (SECURE) Technology Act of 2018, Pub. L. 115-390, 132 Stat.
                   5173. Available at https://www.congress.gov/115/plaws/publ390/PLAW-
                   115publ390.pdf
[FISMA]            Federal Information Security Modernization Act (P.L. 113-283), December
                   2014. Available at https://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-
                   113publ283.pdf
[FOIA]             Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 USC § 552, as amended by Public Law
                   No. 104-231, 110 Stat. 3048, Electronic Freedom of Information Act
                   Amendments of 1996. Available at
                   https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/PLAW-104publ231
[PRIVACT]          Privacy Act (P.L. 93-579), December 1974. Available at
                   https://www.govinfo.gov/app/details/STATUTE-88/STATUTE-88-Pg1896
                            REGULATIONS, DIRECTIVES, PLANS, AND POLICIES
[OMBA-130]         Office of Management and Budget Circular A-130, Managing Information as a
                   Strategic Resource, July 2016. Available at https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-
                   content/uploads/legacy_drupal_files/omb/circulars/A130/a130revised.pdf
[OMBM-17-12]       Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-17-12, Reporting
                   Guidance for Executive Order on Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal
                   Networks and Critical Infrastructure, May 2017. Available at
                   https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-
                   content/uploads/legacy_drupal_files/omb/memoranda/2017/m-17-12_0.pdf
[OMBM-26-05]       Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-26-05, Adopting a Risk-
                   based Approach to Software and Hardware Security, January 2026. Available
                   at https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2026/01/M-26-05-
                   Adopting-a-Risk-based-Approach-to-Software-and-Hardware-Security.pdf
                               STANDARDS, GUIDELINES, AND REPORTS

[FIPS199]          National Institute of Standards and Technology (2004) Standards for Security
                   Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems. (U.S.
                   Department of Commerce, Washington, DC), Federal Information Processing


                                                44
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                    Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                 C-SCRM Plans for Systems

                   Standards Publication (FIPS) NIST FIPS 199.
                   https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.199
[FIPS200]          National Institute of Standards and Technology (2006) Minimum Security
                   Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems. (U.S.
                   Department of Commerce, Washington, DC), Federal Information Processing
                   Standards Publication (FIPS) NIST FIPS 200.
                   https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.200
[IR8062]           An Introduction to Privacy Engineering and Risk Management in Federal
                   Systems (2017) (National Institute of Standards and Technology,
                   Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Interagency/Internal reports (IR) NIST IR 8062.
                   https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8062
[IR8179]           Paulsen C, Boyens J, Bartol N, Winkler K (2018) Criticality Analysis Process:
                   Model Prioritizing Systems and Components. (National Institute of Standards
                   and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Internal Report (IR) NIST IR 8179.
                   https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8179
[IR8286]           Quinn SD, Chua J, Ivy N, Gardner RK, Kent K, Smith MC, Witte GA (2025)
                   Integrating Cybersecurity and Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). (National
                   Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Interagency
                   Report (IR) NIST IR 8286r1. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8286r1
[ISO73]            International Organization for Standardization/Technical Management Board
                   (2009) ISO/TMBG 73:2009 – Risk Management – Vocabulary (ISO, Geneva,
                   Switzerland) [withdrawn]. Available at https://www.iso.org/standard/44651
[NISTCSF]          National Institute of Standards and Technology (2024) The NIST
                   Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0. (National Institute of Standards and
                   Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Cybersecurity White Paper (CSWP) NIST
                   CSWP 29. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.CSWP.29
[NISTPF]           NIST Privacy Framework: A Tool for Improving Privacy Through Enterprise
                   Risk Management (2020) (National Institute of Standards and Technology,
                   Gaithersburg, MD). https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.CSWP.01162020
[NTIASBOM]         The Minimum Elements For a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) (2021) NTIA
                   and Department of Commerce. Available at
                   https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/sbom_minimum_elements
                   _report.pdf
[SP800-30]         Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative (2012) Guide for Conducting Risk
                   Assessments. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg,
                   MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-30r1.
                   https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-30r1
[SP800-37]         Joint Task Force (2018) Risk Management Framework for Information
                   Systems and Organizations: A System Life Cycle Approach for Security and
                   Privacy. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD),
                   NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-37r2.
                   https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-37r2
[SP800-39]         Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative (2011) Managing Information
                   Security Risk: Organization, Mission, and Information System View. (National


                                               45
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                  Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                               C-SCRM Plans for Systems

                Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special
                Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-39. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-39
[SP800-47]      Dempsey KL, Pillitteri VY, Regenscheid A (2021) Managing the Security of
                Information Exchanges. (National Institute of Standards and Technology,
                Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-47r1.
                https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-47r1
[SP800-53]      Joint Task Force (2020) Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems
                and Organizations. (National Institute of Standards and Technology,
                Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-53r5. Includes
                updates as of December 10, 2020. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-53r5
[SP800-53A]     Joint Task Force Transformation Initiative (2022) Assessing Security and
                Privacy Controls in Information Systems and Organizations. (National
                Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special
                Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-53Ar5.
                https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-53Ar5
[SP800-53B]     Joint Task Force (2020) Control Baselines for Systems and Organizations.
                (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST
                Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-53B. Includes updates as of December
                10, 2020. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-53B
[SP800-60v1]    Stine KM, Kissel RL, Barker WC, Fahlsing J, Gulick J (2008) Guide for Mapping
                Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories.
                (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST
                Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-60v1r1.
                https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-60v1r1
[SP800-60v2]    Stine KM, Kissel RL, Barker WC, Lee A, Fahlsing J (2008) Guide for Mapping
                Types of Information and Information Systems to Security Categories:
                Appendices. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg,
                MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-60v2r1.
                https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-60v2r1
[SP800-63-4]    Temoshok D, Galluzzo R, LaSalle C, Lefkovitz N, Regenscheid A, Choong YY,
                Proud-Madruga D, Gupta S (2025) Digital Identity Guidelines. (National
                Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special
                Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-63-4. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-63-4
[SP800-88]      Chandramouli R, Hibbard EA (2025) Guidelines for Media Sanitization.
                (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST
                Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-88r2.
                https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-88r2
[SP800-137]     Dempsey KL, Chawla NS, Johnson LA, Johnston R, Jones AC, Orebaugh AD,
                Scholl MA, Stine KM (2011) Information Security Continuous Monitoring
                (ISCM) for Federal Information Systems and Organizations. (National Institute
                of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication
                (SP) NIST SP 800-137. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-137
[SP800-160v1r1] Ross R, McEvilley M, Winstead M (2022) Engineering Trustworthy Secure
                Systems. (National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD),


                                             46
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                  Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                               C-SCRM Plans for Systems

                NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-160v1r1.
                https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-160v1r1
[SP800-160v2r1] Ross R, Pillitteri VY, Graubert R, Bodeau D, McQuaid R (2021) Developing
                Cyber-Resilient Systems: A Systems Security Engineering Approach. (National
                Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special
                Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-160v2r1. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-
                160v2r1
[SP800-161]     Boyens JM, Smith A, Bartol N (2022) Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk
                Management Practices for Systems and Organizations. (National Institute of
                Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP)
                NIST SP 800-161r1. Includes updates as of November 1, 2024.
                https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-161r1-upd1
[SP800-171]     Ross R, Pillitteri V (2024) Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in
                Nonfederal Systems and Organizations. (National Institute of Standards and
                Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-
                171r3. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-171r3
[SP800-171A]    Ross R, Pillitteri V (2024) Assessing Security Requirements for Controlled
                Unclassified Information and Organizations. (National Institute of Standards
                and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP
                800-171Ar3. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-171Ar3
[SP800-172]     Pillitteri V, Ross R (2026) Enhanced Security Requirements for Protecting
                Controlled Unclassified Information. (National Institute of Standards and
                Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-
                172r3. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-172r3
[SP800-172A]    Pillitteri V, Ross R (2026) Assessing Enhanced Security Requirements for
                Controlled Unclassified Information. (National Institute of Standards and
                Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-
                172Ar3. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-172Ar3
[SP800-188]     Garfinkel S, Guttman B, Near J (2023) De-Identifying Government Datasets:
                Techniques and Governance. (National Institute of Standards and
                Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP)
                NIST SP 800-188. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-188
[SP800-218]     Souppaya MP, Scarfone KA, Dodson D (2022) Secure Software Development
                Framework (SSDF) Version 1.1: Recommendations for Mitigating the Risk of
                Software Vulnerabilities. (National Institute of Standards and Technology,
                Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-218.
                https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-218
[SP1318]        NIST JTC (2025) Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI): NIST
                Special Publication 800-171, Revision 3 Small Business Primer. (National
                Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Special
                Publication (SP) NIST SP 800-1318. https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1318




                                             47
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

                            MISCELLANEOUS PUBLICATIONS AND RESOURCES
[CPRA]             California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (2025). Available at https://thecpra.org/
[CPRT]             National Institute of Standards and Technology (2025), NIST Cybersecurity
                   and Privacy Reference Tool (CPRT). Available at
                   https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cprt
[CSRC]             National Institute of Standards and Technology (2025), NIST Computer
                   Security Resource Center (CSRC). Available at https://csrc.nist.gov
[NARACUI]          National Archives and Records Administration, Controlled Unclassified
                   Information (CUI) Registry. Available at https://www.archives.gov/cui
[NARARECM]         National Archives and Records Administration, NARA Records Management
                   Guidance and Regulations. Available at https://www.archives.gov/records-
                   mgmt/policy
[OSCAL]            National Institute of Standards and Technology (2025), Open Security
                   Controls Assessment Language (OSCAL). Available at https://nist.gov/oscal
[PDAP]             National Institute of Standards and Technology (2025), Catalog of Problems
                   and Problematic Data Actions (PDAP). Available at
                   https://github.com/usnistgov/PrivacyEngCollabSpace/blob/master/tools/risk
                   -assessment/NIST-Privacy-Risk-Assessment-Methodology-PRAM/catalog-
                   PDAP.md
[PRAM]             National Institute of Standards and Technology (2025), NIST Privacy Risk
                   Assessment Methodology (PRAM). Available at
                   https://www.nist.gov/itl/applied-cybersecurity/privacy-
                   engineering/resources
[RMF]              National Institute of Standards and Technology (2025), NIST Risk
                   Management Framework. Available at https://nist.gov/rmf
[SCOR]             National Institute of Standards and Technology (2025), NIST Security and
                   Privacy Control Overlay Repository (SCOR). Available at
                   https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/risk-management/sp800-53-controls/overlay-
                   repository
[ZTDATASEC]        Zero Trust Data Security Guide, October 2024. Available at
                   https://www.cio.gov/zero-trust-data-security-guide-oct2024




                                                48
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                                            Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                               C-SCRM Plans for Systems for Systems



Appendix A. RMF Task Outputs Related to System Plan Elements
The tasks indicated in Table 1 either explicitly identify the system and privacy plan as expected outputs or identify expected outputs
that are directly related to the system plan elements identified in Sec. 3. Details about the individual tasks in Table 2 can be found in
the CPRT reference dataset for SP 800-37r2.
                                     Table 2. RMF task outputs related to the system plan elements summary in Table 1

  RMF Step                RMF Task                      RMF Task Expected Outputs [SP 800-37r2]                          System Plan Elements
Prepare —      TASK P-4                         List of approved or directed organizationally tailored     •   Control Implementation Details
Organization   Organizationally-Tailored        control baselines.
Level          Control Baselines and
               Cybersecurity Framework
               Proﬁles (Optional)
Prepare —      TASK P-5                         List of common control providers and common                •   Control Implementation Details
Organization   Common Control Identiﬁcation     controls available for inheritance; security and privacy
Level                                           plans (or equivalent documents) that provide a
                                                description of the common control implementation
                                                (including inputs, expected behavior, and expected
                                                outputs).
Prepare —      TASK P-8                         Missions, business functions, and mission/business         •   System Overview
System Level   Mission or Business Focus        processes that the system will support.                    •   System Type

Prepare —      TASK P-9                         List of system stakeholders.                               •   Role Identiﬁcation and Responsible Personnel
System Level   System Stakeholders
Prepare —      TASK P-10                        Set of assets to be protected.                             •   Authorization Boundary Description
System Level   Asset Identiﬁcation                                                                         •   System Component Inventory
                                                                                                           •   Environment of Operation Diagrams

Prepare —      TASK P-11                        Documented authorization boundary.                         •   Authorization Boundary Description
System Level   Authorization Boundary                                                                      •   Environment of Operation Diagrams

Prepare —      TASK P-12                        A list of information types for the system.                •   System Information Types
System Level   Information Types




                                                                               49
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                                              Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                                 C-SCRM Plans for Systems for Systems

  RMF Step               RMF Task                      RMF Task Expected Outputs [SP 800-37r2]                             System Plan Elements
Prepare —      TASK P-13                        Documentation of the stages through which                    •   System Information Types
System Level   Information Life Cycle           information passes in the system, such as a data map         •   Authorization Boundary Description
                                                or model illustrating how information is structured or       •   Environment of Operation Diagrams
                                                processed by the system throughout its life cycle. Such      •   Information Exchanges Summary
                                                documentation may include data ﬂow diagrams, entity
                                                relationship diagrams, database schemas, and data
                                                dictionaries.
Prepare —      TASK P-15                        Documented security, privacy, and C-SCRM                     •   Laws, Regulations, and Policies Aﬀecting the
System Level   Requirements Deﬁnition           requirements.                                                    System

Prepare —      TASK P-16                        Updated enterprise architecture; updated security            •   Authorization Boundary Description
System Level   Enterprise Architecture          architecture; updated privacy architecture; plans to         •   Environment of Operation Diagrams
                                                use cloud-based systems and shared systems, services,
                                                or applications.
Prepare —      TASK P-17                        List of security, privacy, and C-SCRM requirements for       •   Laws, Regulations, and Policies Aﬀecting the
System Level   Requirements Allocation          the system, system elements, and environment of                  System
                                                operation.
Prepare —      TASK P-18                        Registered system in accordance with organizational          •   System Name and Identiﬁer
System Level   System Registration              policy.
Categorize     TASK C-1                         Documented system description.                               •   System Overview
               System Description                                                                            •   System Information Types
                                                                                                             •   System Operational Status

Categorize     TASK C-2                         Impact levels determined for each information type           •   System Categorization
               Security Categorization          and for each security objective (conﬁdentiality,
                                                integrity, availability); security categorization based on
                                                high-water mark of information type impact levels.
Categorize     TASK C-3                         Approval of security categorization for the system.          •   System Categorization
               Security Categorization Review
               and Approval
Select         TASK S-1                         Controls selected for the system and the environment         •   Control Implementation Details
               Control Selection                of operation.
Select         TASK S-2                         List of tailored controls for the system and                 •   Control Implementation Details
               Control Tailoring                environment of operation (i.e., tailored control
                                                baselines).



                                                                               50
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                                          Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                             C-SCRM Plans for Systems for Systems

  RMF Step               RMF Task                     RMF Task Expected Outputs [SP 800-37r2]                          System Plan Elements
Select        TASK S-3                        List of security and privacy controls that are allocated   •   Control Implementation Details
              Control Allocation              to the system, system elements, and environment of
                                              operation.
Select        TASK S-4                        Security, privacy, and C-SCRM plans for the system.        •   Control Implementation Details
              Documentation of Planned                                                                   •   Control Implementation Status
              Control Implementations
Select        TASK S-5                        Continuous monitoring strategy for the system,             •   Control Implementation Details
              Continuous Monitoring           including a time-based trigger for ongoing
              Strategy — System               authorization.
Select        TASK S-6                         System plans approved by the authorizing oﬃcial.          •   System Plan Approval
              Plan Review and Approval
Implement     TASK I-1                        Implemented controls.                                      •   Control Implementation Details
              Control Implementation                                                                     •   Information Exchanges Summary

Implement     TASK I-2                        System plans updated with implementation detail            •   Control Implementation Details
              Update Control                  suﬃcient for use by assessors; system conﬁguration         •   Control Implementation Status
              Implementation Information      baseline.                                                  •   Information Exchanges Summary
                                                                                                         •   Remediation Actions
                                                                                                         •   System Plan Change Records

Assess        TASK A-5                        Initial remediation actions completed based on             •   Control Implementation Details
              Remediation Actions             assessment reports; changes to implementations             •   Control Assessment Status
                                              reassessed by the assessment team; updated                 •   Remediation Actions
                                              assessment reports; updated system plans, including        •   System Authorization Decision
                                              changes to control implementations.                        •   System Plan Change Records

Assess        TASK A-6                        A plan of action and milestones detailing the ﬁndings      •   Control Assessment Status
              Plan of Action and Milestones   from the security and privacy assessment reports that      •   Remediation Actions
                                              are to be remediated.                                      •   System Plan Change Records

Authorize     TASK R-1                        Authorization package (with an executive summary),         •   Remediation Actions
              Authorization Package           which may be generated from a security or privacy          •   Digital Identity Acceptance Statement (DIAS)
                                              management tool for submission to the authorizing              (optional)
                                              oﬃcial.




                                                                            51
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                                Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems for Systems

 RMF Step                RMF Task            RMF Task Expected Outputs [SP 800-37r2]                        System Plan Elements
Authorize     TASK R-2                 Risk determination.                                     •   System Authorization Decision
              Risk Analysis and
              Determination

Authorize     TASK R-3                 Risk responses for determined risks.                    •   Control Implementation Details
              Risk Response                                                                    •   Information Exchanges Summary
                                                                                               •   Remediation Actions
                                                                                               •   System Plan Change Records

Authorize     TASK R-4                 Authorization to operate, authorization to use,         •   System Authorization Decision
              Authorization Decision   common control authorization; denial of authorization
                                       to operate, denial of authorization to use, denial of
                                       common control authorization.
Monitor       TASK M-1                 Updated system plans; updated plans of action and       •   System Overview
              System and Environment   milestones; updated assessment reports.                 •   Authorization Boundary Description
              Changes                                                                          •   Environment of Operation Diagrams
                                                                                               •   Control Implementation Details
                                                                                               •   Information Exchanges Summary
                                                                                               •   System Operational Status
                                                                                               •   System Plan Change Records

Monitor       TASK M-2                 Updated assessment reports; updated supplier            •   Control Assessment Status
              Ongoing Assessments      assessments.

Monitor       TASK M-3                 Mitigation actions or risk acceptance decisions;        •   Control Implementation Details
              Ongoing Risk Response    updated assessment reports.                             •   Information Exchanges Summary
                                                                                               •   Remediation Actions
                                                                                               •   System Plan Change Records




                                                                    52
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                                                   Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                                      C-SCRM Plans for Systems for Systems

 RMF Step                RMF Task                RMF Task Expected Outputs [SP 800-37r2]                         System Plan Elements
Monitor       TASK M-4                      Updated assessment reports; updated plans of action   •   Remediation Actions
              Authorization Package Updates and milestones; updated risk assessment results;      •   System Authorization Decision
                                            updated system plans.                                 •   System Plan Review Records
                                                                                                  •   System Plan Change Records
                                                                                                  •   Digital Identity Acceptance Statement (DIAS)
                                                                                                      (optional)

Monitor       TASK M-6                       A determination of risk; ongoing authorization to    •   System Authorization Decision
              Ongoing Authorization          operate, ongoing authorization to use, ongoing
                                             common control authorization; denial of ongoing
                                             authorization to operate, denial of ongoing
                                             authorization to use, denial of ongoing common
                                             control authorization.

Monitor       TASK M-7                       Disposal strategy; up-to-date system component       •   System Component Inventory
              System Disposal                inventory; up-to-date system plans.                  •   System Operational Status
                                                                                                  •   System Plan Change Records




                                                                          53
NIST SP 800-18r2                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems


Appendix B. List of Abbreviations and Acronyms
C-SCRM
Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management

CIO
Chief Information Officer

CPRT
Cybersecurity and Privacy Reference Tool

CUI
Controlled Unclassified Information

DevSecOps
Development, Security, and Operations

FIPS
Federal Information Processing Standards

FISMA
Federal Information Security Modernization Act

FOCI
Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence

GRC
Governance, Risk, and Compliance

IR
Internal Report or Interagency Report

ISCM
Information Security Continuous Monitoring

MOU
Memorandum of Understanding

NARA
National Archives and Records Administration

OMB
Office of Management and Budget

OSCAL
Open Security Controls Assessment Language

PIA
Privacy Impact Assessment

PMO
Program Management Office

PRA
Privacy Risk Assessment




                                                 54
NIST SP 800-18r2                                        Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                     C-SCRM Plans for Systems

PRAM
Privacy Risk Assessment Methodology

RMF
Risk Management Framework

SBOM
Software Bill of Materials

SCRM
Supply Chain Risk Management

SIEM
Security Information and Event Management

SOAR
Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response

SecCM
Security-focused Configuration Management

SORN
System of Records Notice




                                                   55
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                     Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                  C-SCRM Plans for Systems

Appendix C. Glossary
availability
Ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of information. [44 U.S.C., Sec. 3542]

confidentiality
Preserving authorized restrictions on information access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal
privacy and proprietary information. [44 U.S.C., Sec. 3542]

cybersecurity supply chain risk management
A systematic process for managing exposure to cybersecurity risks throughout the supply chain and developing
appropriate response strategies, policies, processes, and procedures. [SP800-161]
See supply chain risk management.

cybersecurity supply chain risk management plan
A formal document that describes the implementations, requirements, constraints, and implications of
cybersecurity supply chain risk management (C-SCRM) controls selected for an information system or environment
of operation that work in collaboration with the C-SCRM strategy, policies, and implementation plan to provide a
systematic and holistic approach to cybersecurity supply chain risk management across an enterprise. The C-SCRM
plan may be integrated with the system privacy and security plans into one consolidated document.

disassociability
Enabling the processing of PII or events without association to individuals or devices beyond the operational
requirements of the system. [NIST PF]

information security program plan
Formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an organization-wide information
security program and describes the program management controls and common controls in place or planned for
meeting those requirements. [SP800-37] from [OMBA-130]
See privacy program plan.

integrity
Guarding against improper information modification or destruction and ensuring information non-repudiation and
authenticity. [44 U.S.C., Sec. 3542]

machine-readable
When used with respect to data, means data in a format that can be easily processed by a computer without
human intervention while ensuring no semantic meaning is lost. [44USC3502]

manageability
Providing the capability for granular administration of PII including alteration, deletion, and selective disclosure.
[NIST PF]

predictability
Enabling reliable assumptions by individuals, owners, and operators about data and their processing by a system,
product, or service. [NIST PF]

privacy
Freedom from intrusion into the private life or affairs of an individual when that intrusion results from undue or
illegal gathering and use of data about that individual. [SP800-188]

privacy continuous monitoring program
An agency-wide program that implements the agency’s privacy continuous monitoring strategy and maintains
ongoing awareness of threats and vulnerabilities that may pose privacy risks; monitors changes to information
systems and environments of operation that create, collect, use, process, store, maintain, disseminate, disclose, or


                                                          56
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

dispose of PII; and conducts privacy control assessments to verify the continued effectiveness of all privacy
controls selected and implemented at an agency across the agency risk management tiers to ensure continued
compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks. [OMBA-130]

privacy control
The administrative, technical, and physical safeguards employed within an agency to ensure compliance with
applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks. [OMBA-130]

privacy control assessment
The assessment of privacy controls to determine whether the controls are implemented correctly, operating as
intended, and sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable privacy requirements and manage privacy risks. A
privacy control assessment is both an assessment and a formal document detailing the process and the outcome of
the assessment. [OMBA-130]

privacy plan
A formal document that details the privacy controls selected for an information system or environment of
operation that are in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy requirements and managing privacy risks,
details how the controls have been implemented, and describes the methodologies and metrics that will be used
to assess the controls. [OMBA-130]
         Note: The security plan and the privacy plan may be integrated into one consolidated system artifact.

privacy program plan
A formal document that provides an overview of an agency’s privacy program, including a description of the
structure of the privacy program, the resources dedicated to the privacy program, the role of the Senior Agency
Official for Privacy and other privacy officials and staff, the strategic goals and objectives of the privacy program,
and the program management controls and common controls in place or planned for meeting applicable privacy
requirements and managing privacy risks. [SP800-37] from [OMBA-130]
See information security program plan.

privacy requirements
A requirement that applies to an information system or an organization that is derived from applicable laws,
executive orders, directives, policies, standards, regulations, procedures, and/or mission/business needs with
respect to privacy. [SP800-37]
         Note: The term “privacy requirement” can be used in a variety of contexts, from high-level policy activities
         to low-level implementation activities in system development and engineering disciplines.

privacy risk
The likelihood that individuals will experience problems resulting from data processing, and the impact should they
occur. [NISTPF]

privacy risk management
A cross-organizational set of processes for identifying, assessing, and responding to privacy risks. [NISTPF]

risk management
The program and supporting processes to manage risk to agency operations (including mission, functions, image,
reputation), agency assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation, and includes establishing the context
for risk-related activities; assessing risk; responding to risk once determined; and monitoring risk over time.
[OMBA-130]

security
A condition that results from the establishment and maintenance of protective measures that enable an
organization to perform its mission or critical functions despite risks posed by threats to its use of systems.




                                                           57
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                      Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                   C-SCRM Plans for Systems

Protective measures may involve a combination of deterrence, avoidance, prevention, detection, recovery, and
correction that should form part of the organization’s risk management approach. [SP800-37]

security plan
A formal document that provides an overview of the security requirements for an information system or an
information security program and describes the security controls in place or planned for meeting those
requirements. The system security plan describes the system components that are included within the system, the
environment in which the system operates, how the security requirements are implemented, and the relationships
with or connections to other systems. [SP800-53]
         Note: The security plan and the privacy plan may be integrated into one consolidated system artifact.

software bill of materials
A formal record containing the details and supply chain relationships of various components used in building
software. Software developers and vendors often create products by assembling existing open-source and
commercial software components. The SBOM enumerates these components in a product. [EO14028]

supply chain
Linked set of resources and processes between multiple tiers of developers that begins with the sourcing of
products and services and extends through the design, development, manufacturing, processing, handling, and
delivery of products and services to the acquirer. [OMBA-130]

supply chain risk
Risks that arise from the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or information systems and
reflect the potential adverse impacts to organizational operations (including mission, functions, image, or
reputation), organizational assets, individuals, other organizations, and the Nation. [OMBA-130]

supply chain risk information
Includes, but is not limited to, information that describes or identifies: (1) Functionality of covered articles,
including access to data and information system privileges; (2) Information on the user environment where a
covered article is used or installed; (3) The ability of the source to produce and deliver covered articles as expected
(i.e., supply chain assurance); (4) Foreign control of, or influence over, the source (e.g., foreign ownership,
personal and professional ties between the source and any foreign entity, legal regime of any foreign country in
which the source is headquartered or conducts operations); (5) Implications to national security, homeland
security, and/or national critical functions associated with use of the covered source; (6) Vulnerability of federal
systems, programs, or facilities; (7) Market alternatives to the covered source; (8) Potential impact or harm caused
by the possible loss, damage, or compromise of a product, material, or service to an organization’s operations or
mission; (9) Likelihood of a potential impact or harm, or the exploitability of a system; (10) Security, authenticity,
and integrity of covered articles and their supply and compilation chain; (11) Capacity to mitigate risks identified;
(12) Credibility of and confidence in other supply chain risk information; (13) Any other information that would
factor into an analysis of the security, integrity, resilience, quality, trustworthiness, or authenticity of covered
articles or sources; (14) A summary of the above information and, any other information determined to be
relevant to the determination of supply chain risk. [FASCSA]

supply chain risk management
The process of identifying, assessing, and mitigating the risks associated with the global and distributed nature of
information and communications technology product and service supply chains. [OMBA-130]
See cybersecurity supply chain risk management.

system-related privacy risk
Risk to an individual or individuals associated with the agency’s creation, collection, use, processing, storage,
maintenance, dissemination, disclosure, and disposal of their PII. [OMBA-130]




                                                           58
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                                    Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                                 C-SCRM Plans for Systems

system-related security risk
Risk that arises through the loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or systems and that
considers impacts to the organization (including assets, mission, functions, image, or reputation), individuals, other
organizations, and the Nation. [SP800-30]

systems privacy engineering
Process that captures and refines privacy requirements and ensures their integration into information technology
component products and information systems through purposeful privacy design or configuration. [SP800-37]
A specialty engineering discipline of systems engineering. It applies scientific, mathematical, engineering, and
measurement concepts, principles, and methods to deliver, consistent with defined constraints and necessary
trade-offs, a trustworthy asset protection capability that satisfies stakeholder requirements; is seamlessly
integrated into the delivered system; and presents residual risk that is deemed acceptable and manageable to
stakeholders. [OMBA-130]




                                                         59
NIST SP 800-18r2                                                    Developing Security, Privacy, and
June 2026                                                                 C-SCRM Plans for Systems

Appendix D. Change Log
NIST Special Publication (SP) 800-18r2 (Revision 2), Developing Security, Privacy, and Supply
Chain Risk Management Plans for Systems, provides guidelines for developing and maintaining
system security plans, system privacy plans, and C-SCRM plans.
    •   Section 2 defines and explains the system plan types based on the RMF [SP800-37],
        [SP800-161], and the NIST Privacy Framework.
    •   Section 3 updates the suggested elements for system security, privacy, C-SCRM plans
        and addresses the relationship between security risk management and privacy risk
        management. Material has been added to address the use of information management
        tools and automation to support the development, management, maintenance, and
        protection of system plan information.
    •   Section 4 relates the development and maintenance of system security, privacy, and
        C-SCRM plans to the implementation of the RMF.
In addition, the publication has been restructured and the following content changes have been
applied:
    •   Technical content from other NIST publications is now included by reference rather than
        repeated.
    •   The terms general support system, major application, and minor application have been
        deprecated to be consistent with OMB Circular A-130 (July 2016) [OMBA-130].
    •   The term system boundary has been updated to authorization boundary for consistency
        with the terminology in [SP800-37].




                                              60
